Tests are frequently required to determine what voltages and currents might be
induced on the electrical wiring by a lightning stroke to such hardware. These
tests are needed because the currents and voltages may be conducted to other
electrical systems in the vehicle. The basic principle by which one of such tests is
made is shown in Figure 17.6 (Reference 17.1 1). The test object should be
mounted on a shielded test chamber so that access to the electrical connectors of
the object can be obtained in an area relatively free from the electromagnetic
fields produced by the surge generator. The test object should be mounted to
the shielded enclosure in a manner similar to the way in which it is mounted on
the aircraft, since normal bonding impedances may contribute to the voltages
induced on circuits. If the shielded enclosure is large enough, the measurement
oscilloscope may be contained within it. If not, a suitably shielded instrument
cable may be used to transfer the induced voltage signal from the shielded
enclosure to the oscilloscope. Measurements of the voltage induced on the
electrical circuits within the test objects should be made on both a line-ground
and a line-line mode. Since the direct contact of the lightning flash with the test
object frequently produces quite high voltages, dividers or attenuators external
to the oscilloscope may be needed. If used, these should be checked to ensure
that the signals displayed on the oscilloscope are not the result of either spurious
pickup on the attenuator or overload effects in the amplifiers used in the
oscilloscope.
The appropriate waveforms of the surge currents to be injected into the
test object depend on where the object will be located on the aircraft and
whether or not it will be likely to intercept the initial lightning current stroke or
whether it is likely only to intercept a stroke blown back along the surface of
the vehicle by the swept-stroke mechanism. The literature on test requirements
discusses in considerable detail the waveforms appropriate to the different zones
on the aircraft, and for any such test the reader is referred to that literature
2). (Reference 17.1
17.5 Tests on Internal Equipment
The second major category of tests involves tests to determine how the
avionic equipment within the aircraft responds to the transients induced on the
wiring by the flow of lightning current. Equipment for and specifications
relating to these tests are in an embryonic state of development at the present
time. In the following sections we will attempt to discuss some of the available
test techniques, the goals they are intended to accomplish, and some of the
factors to which attention must be given during the conduct of such tests.
7.5.1 Waveforms and Amplitudes 1
Tests and measurements have shown that the transient voltages and
currents to which avionic equipment is subjected are most commonly of a
damped oscillatory nature. Voltages are almost always of this nature and
currents usually are as well, although the currents flowing on the shields of
shielded conductors have more of a tendency to be of a unidirectional nature