Since the metal straps are installed on the outside surface, there may be α
small drag penalty. This drag can be minimized by orienting the straps parallel to
the airstream or by shaping the cross section of the straps aerodynamically.
Internal Strap with Protruding Studs
Mounting of external straps flush within the nonmetallic wall not only
creates tooling and manufacturing problems but also degrades the strength of the
wall because of stress concentrations along the grooves required for flush
mounting. Therefore, metal straps or tubes have sometimes been mounted on
the inside surface structure, with metal studs protruding through the wall to
serve as lightning attachment points, as shown in Figure 7.25.
'/ /
BENEATH SURFACE
Internal strap protruding 7.25 with studs, Figure
Although this type of diverter installation may reduce the aerodynamic
drag created by external mounting, it fails to take advantage of the insulation
capability of the nonmetallic wan, and, in fact, may even intensify the electric
field stress through the wall, promoting punctures if the protruding studs are too
far apart. In general, the thicker the wall, the farther apart may be the studs. In
30 (1 many cases, cm ft) is close enough, but individual cases should be
evaluated by high-voltage tests similar to that of Figure 7.22, or by tests of the
5. and 7.1 Appropriate test complete structure similar to those of Figures 7.1 4
conditions for the latter are described in Test Wavefornzs for Lightning
The possibility of puncture to an internal Aerospace Vehicles and Hardware.
strap or tube can be minimized if the portion of it between the protruding studs
is covered with an insulating sleeve.
When lightning currents travel through any internal conductor, of course,
there is also the possibility of the inductive voltage rise causing sparking to
nearby conductors which are not carrying current. Covering of the lightning
will conductor with an insulating sleeve in the vicinity of nearby conductors
reduce the possibility; the internal strap or tube can be used without such α
sleeve if the spacing between the strap and adjacent conductors is great enough
to prevent sparking. For purposes of estimating what this spacing should be,
1 22