other points on the aircraft. As α result, the maximum field stress to which most
100 points of the aircraft can be raised is probably on the order of kV/μ. This
electric field will be radial with respect to the metal surface of the aircraft. In
places where there are apertures, the electric field lines will pass through the
apertures and will produce electric fields on the inner surface of the aircraft.
The response of α conductor to α suddenly applied electric field is shown
12.4. in Figure If α conductor is α height, η, above α metal surface upon which
will an electric field is incident, the conductor assume the potential of the field
at that point:
This holds true only if the conductor is isolated from ground. If the conductor is
completely grounded, as shown in Figure 12.4(β), the voltage on the conductor
will be zero. If we were dealing only with static electric fields, any ground on the
conductor would reduce the conductor voltage to zero. However, here we are
dealing with conductors having distributed inauctance and capacitance, and
exposed to α suddenly applied electric field. Accordingly, the electric field
will raise the conductor to the voltage ε hEi, and the voltage applied at point 1 =
will maintain itself at that level until such time as α voltage wave has had time to
to the ground conductor at the left and back to point 1. propagate from point 1
Thus, at point 1 the conductor experiences α square-wave voltage lasting for
twice the travel time required for the wave to travel from point to the 1
2 grounded end and back. The electric field applied at point likewise raises the
2 conductor at point to ε hEi, and it again remains there until α wave has had =
time to propagate to the grounded end and back. Since less of the conductor is
involved, this voltage lasts for α shorter period of time. Nearing the limit, the
field applied at point can raise the conductor to α voltage of ε hEi for only α 4 =
very short period of time.
waves the voltage that are produced return to the open end of the As
conductor, they again experience α reflection. The voltage waves reflect back
and forth between the open and grounded ends, reversing their polarity at the
grounded end and doubling in amplitude at the open end. Thus, the voltage at
the open end is oscillatory (Figure 12.5), the amplitude of the oscillation
decreasing with time as energy is lost in the resistance of the conductor or
radiated into surrounding objects.
Associated with these traveling waves of voltage are traveling current
waves. The degree to which the waves are excited depends not only upon the
magnitude of the incident electrical field but upon its rate of change. Fields with
longer rise times are proportionately less effective in exciting oscillations. If the
12.4 conductor of Figure is viewed as the shield on α group of wires, the current
and voltage on the shield will be oscillatory. The commonly accepted practice of
grounding shields at only one end is based on the premise that the electric fields
to which the shielded conductors will be exposed are of such low frequency that
all points of the shield may be held at ground potential with only the one
ground point. When the rapidly changing electric field associated with lightning