location, but the aircraft will move forward a significant distance during the life
of the flash. Thus, whereas the initial entry and exit points are determined by
the mechanisms previously described, there may be other, subsequent, attach-
ment points that are determined by the motion of the aircraft through the
relatively stationary flash channel. In the case of a fighter aircraft, for example,
when a forward extremity such as the pitot boom becomes an initial attachment
point, its surface moves through the lightning channel, and thus the channel
2.8. This appears to sweep back over the surface, as illustrated in Figure
occurrence is known as the phenomenon. As the sweeping action swept-stroke
occurs, the type of surface can cause the lightning channel to attach and dwell at
If part of the surface, various surface locations for different periods of time.
such as the radome, is nonmetallic, the flash may continue to dwell at the last
metallic attachment point (aft end of the pitot boom) until another exposed
metallic surface (the fuselage) has reached it; or the channel may puncture the
nonmetallic surface and reattach to a metallic object beneath it (the radar dish).
Whether puncture or surface flashover occurs depends on the amplitude and rate
of rise of the voltage stress created along the channel, as well as the
voltage-withstand strength of the nonmetallic surface and any air gap separating
it from enclosed metallic objects. When the lightning arc has been swept back to
one of the trailing edges, it may remain attached at that point for the remaining
duration of the lighting flash. An initial attachment point at trailing edge, of a
course, would not be subjected to any swept-stroke action.
Tn FLASH
TI T2
Typical of swept-stroke attachment 2.8 points. Figure path
The aircraft cannot fly out of, or away from, the channel. This because is
the potential difference between charge centers (cloud and earth or another
cloud) is sufficient to maintain a very long channel until the charges have
neutralized each other and the flash dies. The aircraft is a very small (and highly
conductive) part of the channel and cannot move sufficiently far away from the
vicinity of the channel to become detached from it during the brief lifetime of a
lightning flash.