representing the flux within the wing, was the larger.
A fourth circuit, and one which illustrates the interaction between the
lightning-developed voltage and the circuit response is shown in Figure 14.5. In
a this circuit a slot antenna excited by grounded stub and fed from a length of
75 coaxial cable was installed in the leading edge of the wing. The shorted 52
stub that excited the slot antenna was the predominant area intercepting the
magnetic flux produced by the lightning current in the wing. As in the three
previous examples, the basic voltage developed in this antenna and shown in
Figures 14.5(c) or 14.5(e) followed the same pattern as that shown for the other
circuits. The rapid transition on the leading edge of the voltage, however, was
capable of exciting an oscillation within the coaxial cable feeding the antenna.
When the antenna circuit was terminated in a resistor matching the surge
impedance of the cable, the higher frequency ringing oscillation disappeared,
leaving only the underlying response of the antenna to the magnetic field
surrounding the wing.
Several significant things were learned during this test series. The first was
that the voltages induced in a typical circuit within the wing consisted of a
magnetically induced component and a component proportional to the
resistance of the current path. The location at which the lightning flash
contacted the wing had an important effect on the magnitude of voltages
developed on different circuits. None of the circuits displayed the easily
understandable response of the conductors within the elliptical cylinder, and in
none of the circuits could a clearly definable transfer impedance that was easily
relatable to the structural geometry of the wing be derived. Nearly aU the
voltages and currents measured on the circuits could be explained in terms of the
14.6, simple equivalent circuit shown in Figure but there did not seem to be any
easy way in which the magnitudes of the transfer impedance could be related to
the physical geometry of the wing or to the location of the conductors within
the wing. It was possible, however, to say that conductors located in the forward
portion of the wing were better shielded, and consequently had lower transfer
impedances, than those along the trailing edge. Likewise, it could be observed
that circuits which did not have any electrical return through the wing structure
had lower transfer impedances than those circuits which did have a return
through the wing structure.
These equivalent circuits may be based upon the self-inductance of the
wing, the self-inductance of the circuit within the wing, and the mutual im-
pedance between the wing and the internal conductor. Alternatively, they may
be based upon a transfer impedance, as shown in Figure 14.5(c). In the former
the self-inductance of the wing would be nearly equal to the mutual inductance
between the wing and the internal conductors. Their difference would be equal
to the transfer inductance in the latter approach. Since the values of the transfer
impedance will be much smaller than the values representing the self-impedance
of the circuit, the latter leads to the more easily handled formulation. The latter
approach is also compatible with the concept of mutual inductance or transfer
impedance discussed for shielded cables in Chapter 13.