--
3. 2 No Report No Government Accarnon No Recipsenr'ρ Catalog 1
RP -1008 NASA
. ..
5 4 Tttie and Subtntle Report Date
October 1977 LIGHTNING PROTECTION OF AIRCRAFT
Organization Code 6 Performing
- -
8 Organization No Performing Report 7 Authorlrl
Franklin Α. Fisher and Anderson Plumer J.
Work No 10 Unct
Name 9 Performing Organizafron and Addrerr
General Electric Company
or No 11 Contract Grant Woodlawn Avenue 100
01201 Pittsfield, MA
13 Type of Report and Perlod Covered
- Reference Publication 12 Sponsoring Agency Name and Addrerr
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Code 14. Sponsoring Agency
20546 C. Washington, Δ. -
15. Noter Supplementary
16 Abrtiact
This handbook summarizes the current knowledge concerning the potential lightning effects on
aircraft and the means that are available to designers and operators to protect against these
- two sources the increased use of effects. The impetus for writing this book comes from
nonmetallic materials in the structure of aircraft and the constant trend toward using elec-
tronic equipment to handle flight-critical control and navigation functions. NonmetaIlic struc-
tures are inherently more likely to be damaged by α lightning strike than are metallic struc-
tures. Nonmetallic structures also provide less shielding against the intense electromagnetic
fields of lightning than do metallic structures. These fields have demonstrated an ability to
damage or cause upset of electronic equipment. The persons who can best use information on
aircraft protection from lightning are the aircraft designers and operators, but generally they
are not among those who produced this information. Moreover, they are often unaware of its
existence, and they seldom have the background to distill from it the important facts that can
is and should be applied to achieve safer designs. The purpose of this book to present the
most important parts of this body of knowledge in α manner most useful to the designer and
the operator.
17 Key Words ISuggested by Authorlrl) 18. Distribution Statement
- Lightning; Thunderstorms; Electronic Unclassified unlimited
03 equipment; Aircraft equipment; Aircraft STAR Category
instruments; Aircraft safety; Aircraft
structures
22 iof 20 Price' this 21 No of Pager 19. Security Clarsil θ~σ report1 Security Clarr\φ (of pagel
Α2 4 Unclassified 560 Unclassified
For by 22161 sale the Nat~onal Techn~cal Inlormalio~ι Service Sprinef~eid Virgin~α