CHAPTER 13
ON EFFECTS OF SHIELDS CABLES
13.1 Introduction
If electronic equipment is to be operated in α region where there are
changing electromagnetic fields and if experience or analysis indicates that the
currents and voltages induced by those fields may be harmful, the most
straightforward approach toward achieving transient compatibility is to shield
interconnecting wiring from those fields. In aircraft, shielded conductors are
most commonly used to control low-level and low-frequency interference
signals, For many good and legitimate reasons shields on cables are often
grounded at only one end. If the wiring subjected to the rapidly changing is
electromagnetic fields associated with lightning, however, shields grounded at
only one end may not be effective, and in some cases can make the surge
voltages even larger than they would be if the conductors were not shielded in
the first place. In this section of the report we shall discuss the ways in which
shielded cables reduce surge voltages, some of the ways in which common
practice regarding the use of shields may be at variance with the use required for
the control of lightning effects, and some of the ways in which this apparent
conflict of use may be resolved. We shall also discuss how the noise currents
flowing on shields of cables may be related to the noise signals coupled onto the
signal conductors.
13.2 Some Elementary Illustrations
To illustrate some of these effects let us consider α series of tests
(Reference 13.1) that were made on α 5μ long length of RG-58/U coaxial cable.
The cable was placed adjacent to α metal ground plane and α magnetic field
passed between the cable and the ground plane. The magnetic field was not α
distributed field but was confined to the core of α pulse injection transformer in
the manner shown in Chapter 17. Measurements were made of the voltage
between the center conductor and ground at each end of the cable. These
voltages thus represent the common-mode voltages that would exist. The first set
of results is shown in Figure 13.1. Tn an unshielded conductor or one in which
the shield on α conductor is not used, equal and opposite voltages appear at the
two ends if all of the loading impedances are balanced. The voltages at the two
ends of the conductor are of equal amplitude but opposite polarity, as would be
produced if the conductor were considered to have an equivalent voltage
generator at its center, as shown in Figure 13.λ(χ). If the load impedances at the
50 ends are unbalanced by the addition of α resistor at one end (Figure 13.2), fl
the total voltage induced around the loop remains unchanged, but most of it
appears at the end with the highest impedance. With reference to the equivalent
V2 circuit of Figure 13.2(χ), the fact that there is any voltage at implies the
existence of some capacitive loading as well as the desired resistance load;
otherwise there would be no voltage across V2.