during the course of an extensive analytical investigation. The magnetic field
amplitudes assigned to each of these zones, based on the analytical study, are
given in Table 11.1 (Reference 11.8). The fields Were divided into two
components, an A-component referring to fields coupled through apertures and
a B-component referring to fields coupled by diffusion through metal surfaces.
The A-component of the field would tend to have the same rapidly changing
waveshape as the external magnetic field, while the B-component would have a
much slower waveshape. In the study the waveforms of the Space Shuttle
different components were taken to be as shown on Figure 11.14 (Reference
11.9). In each case the field intensity was based on a worst case 200 kA lightning
- A THROUGH D MOST PROBABLE LlGHTNlNG ARC ENTRY AND EXIT POINTS
SHUTTLE ZONES - - - - - - - - - . - . . . . . . . . . . . . . IT.UT nFCK PAY1 CIAn FI A RAV . . 1
7 2 CENTER EQUIPMENT BAY AFT EQUIPMENT BAY
8 LOWER EQUIPMENT BAY ENGINE COMPARTMENT 3
FORWARD VERTICAL STABILIZER 9 TOP 4
10 5 FORWARD CENTER WING
Shielded zones within the structure. 11.13 Figure Orbiter
vehicle. The field amplitudes of Table 11.1 current passing through the Orbiter
were the maximum amplitudes calculated for any of the possible lightning
current entry or exit points. While no particular claim for accuracy can be made
the field amplitudes at least seem about any individual point within the Orbiter,
reasonable.
The concept of dividing an aircraft structure into different magnetic field
zones and assigning a ruling magnetic field strength to each zone, while
imperfectly formulated at present, is fundamentally no different from the civil
engineering practice of designing a structure to withstand a standard (generally
worst case) wind loading. While the wind loading may differ widely at different
on points on the structure, the task of calculating the wind loading each and
every structural member would probably be sufficiently expensive that it would
offset the savings that one might realize by tailoring each structural member to
its own specific wind loading.