The flow of current through the self-inductance of the pigtail produces α voltage
This voltage, less that induced in the mutual inductance between the
pigtail and the conductors in the connector, will add directly to that produced
by the flow of current along the shield.
The self-inductance of α straight conductor is
Π is the length of the conductor and ρ is its radius, both measured in where
centimeters. The inductance of α typical pigtail will not be significantly different
even if it is not straight.
The mutual inductance between the two conductors is
Q, where the factor shown in Figure 13.31, is α function of the ratio of the
<
length of conductors to their spacing. If δ then Q,
Mutual inductance so defined is not the same as the mutual inductance
referred to Equations 13.4 and 13.1 2. This latter is best referred to as α in
which one would normally want to be small. The transfer inductance,
Μ. Λ corresponding quantity for the parallel conductors would be minus One
would normally want the mutual inductance (Equation 13.27) between two
conductors to be large.
numerical example will illustrate the problems associated with pigtail Α
grounds. Assume α shield is carried, as in Figure 13.30(χ), through α panel on α
pigtail and α set of connector pins. Assume the total length of the pigtail-pin
7 combination to be cm, the spacing between the pigtail and α signal conductor
22AWG to be, on the average, 0.05 cm, and the pigtail to be made from number
wire having α radius of 0.0323 cm. The self-inductance of the pigtail would then
74.5 be nH, the mutual inductance between the two would be 65.0 nH, and the
difference, the factor equivalent to the transfer inductance for the shielded
Α cable, would be nH. rather mediocre shielded braid would have an 9.5
inductance on the order of nH/μ, and α large-diameter, tightly woven braid 1
might have an inductance on the order of 0.25 nHlm. The amount of voltage
injected into α signal circuit by the current flowing through this one relatively
short pigtail, then, would be as much as that coupled onto the signal conductor
by to 40 μ of cable shield braid. This point may be illustrated by Figure 10
13.32, an extension of the test series previously discussed in reference to Figures