Tape-wound shield. 13*21 Figure
The maximum transfer impedance found at dc or low frequencies, or is
frequencies low enough that the thickness of the shield is small compared to the
skin depth. That impedance is the dc resistance
The transfer impedance decreases with increasing frequency. Accordingly,
the internal electric field will, in response to a step-function current, increase
10.9 according to the pulse penetration time constant predicted by Equation
10.6 and shown in Figure of Section 10.1.
In the absence of any end effects or openings through which magnetic
M 1 2 of Equation 13.4 will be zero. fields can leak, the mutual inductance term
Cable trays are most often used for mechanical protection of wires, but if
viewed as shields, they may also provide electrical protection. The characteristics
of a cable tray that make for good electrical protection are the same as those of
any other shield:
It must be able to carry current along its axis.
It should be of low-resistance material.
It should completely surround the conductors, implying that the
tray should be fitted with a conducting cover.
It should have a minimum number of openings through which
magnetic fields may leak,
It should have as few joints as possible, and such pints should be
made in such a manner as to provide minimum resistance and
leakage of magnetic fields.
The transfer characteristics of the tray by itself would be about the same
as those of the solid tubular shields discussed previously. This comparison
assumes the tray to be of solid metal and fitted with a well-sealed cover. Since
covers never form perfect seals, the pulse penetration time constant would
10.9. probably not be as long as predicted by Equation Even with an imperfect
cover, the transfer impedance ZT would not be greater than the dc resistance.
Trays are most commonly built in short sections and joined by splices or
transition sections. Such sections frequently provide for thermal expansion and
contraction and are, at any rate, seldom designed either to provide good
electrical continuity or to protect against magnetic leakage. When joints are
considered, the transfer characteristic of the tray is frequently found to depend
almost entirely on the treatment of the joints. The transfer characteristics can
be determined experimentally. seldom be determined by calculation; they must