Actions:
Circumvent areas of heavy precipitation. 1.
Reduce speed (or rpm with piston-engine aircraft). 2.
Change altitude to avoid temperature near 0 "C. 3.
4. Turn up cockpit lights.
Have one pilot keep eyes downward. 5.
Since air traffic congestion often precludes circumvention of precipitation
and since diversion often poses hazards, avoidance, while desirable, is neither a
dependable nor an adequate means of protecting the aircraft against lightning
strikes. The aircraft, therefore, must be designed to safely withstand lightning
strike effects.
Frequency Occurrence 3.6 of
The number of lightning strikes which actually occur as compared with
flight hours for piston, turboprop, and pure jet aircraft is tabulated in Table 3.3
based on the data of Newman (Reference 3.26) and Perry (Reference 3.27).
From this data it follows that an average of one strike can be expected for each
3000 hours of flight for any type of commercial transport aircraft, with slightly
greater exposure expected for piston aircraft only. The probable reason for this
difference is that piston aircraft are limited to lower cruise altitudes, where
lightning flashes are more prevalent.
Unlike commercial airlines, military and general aviation aircraft need not
adhere to strict flight schedules or c~ngested traffic patterns around metro-
politan airports. The result is that these aircraft do not experience as many
3.4, U.S. strikes as do corrimercial aircraft, as is evident from Table which shows
Air Force experience for the years 1965 to 1969.
3.4 indicates that Comparison of the experience reported in Tables 3.3 and
the probability of commercial aircraft being struck is anywhere from 10 to 200
times greater than for U.S. Air Force aircraft for the same number of flight
hours. The discrepancy is most certainly a result of variations in flight
operations, rather than a result of physical differences in the types of aircraft
flown. Whereas the Air Force may curtail flight operations in adverse weather,
commercial air lines usually continue operations, and their aircrafts' exposure to
lightning is further increased in bad weather by traffic congestion and holding
requirements near airports.
Statistics such as these, which apply to a broad category of aircraft and
in varying geographic include data from a variety of different operators
locations, may be misleading, however. For example, whereas Table 3.4 shows
99 that there is an average of 000 flying hours between lightning strikes to U.S.
Air Force fighter-type aircraft, the strike experience in Europe is known to be
10 times more frequent than strike experience in the U.S. and in most about
10.5 3.28) report other parts of the world. Weinstock and Shaeffer (Reference
strikes per 10 000 hours for certain F-4 models flying in Europe, which rate is
times greater than the world-wide exposure rate for these aircraft. A about 5
similar situation pertains to commercial aircraft operating in Europe, as