less, because a few bad accidents attributed to lightning strikes continued to
happen, in 1938 the Subcommittee of Aircraft Safety, Weather and Lightning
Experts was formed b y the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics
(NACA) to study lightning effects on aircraft and determine what additional
B. protective measures were needed. Dr. Karl McEachron, Director of Research
at the General Electric High Voltage Laboratory, was a key member of this
committee, and during its twleve-year existence he performed the first
man-made-lightning tests on aircraft parts. During and subsequent t o this period,
other organizations, such as the U.S. National Bureau of Standards, the
University of Minnesota, and the Lightning and Transients Research Institute,
also began to conduct research into lightning effects on aircraft.
For a long time the physical damage effects at the point of flash
attachment to the aircraft were of primary concern. These included holes burned
in metallic skins, puncturing or splintering of nonmetallic structures, and
welding or roughening of movable hinges and bearings. If the attachment point
was a wing tip light or an antenna, the possibility of conducting some of the
lightning current directly into the aircraft's electrical circuits was also of
concern. Today, these and other physical damage effects are called the direct
Since present-day military and commercial aircraft fly IFR (Instrument effects
Flight Rules) in many kinds of weather, protective measures against direct
effects have been designed and incorporated into these aircraft so that hazardous
consequences of lightning strikes are rare.
In recent years it has become apparent that lightning strikes to aircraft
or to equipment located elsewhere in may cause other effects, indirect effects,
the aircraft. For example, the operation of instruments and navigation
equipment has been interfered with, and circuit breakers have popped in electric
power distribution systems when the aircraft has been struck by lightning. The
cause of these indirect effects are the electromagnetic fields associated with light-
ning currents flowing through the aircraft. Even though metallic skins provide a
high degree of electromagnetic shielding, some of these fields may penetrate
through windows or seams and induce transient voltage surges in the aircraft'b
electrical wiring; these surges in turn may damage electrical or electronic
equipment.
To date, few aircraft accidents can be attributed positively to the indirect
effects of lightning, but there are two trends in aircraft design which threaten to
aggravate the problem unless new protective measures are developed and
utilized. The first of these trends is the increasing use of miniaturized, solid state
components in aircraft electronics and electric power systems. These devices are
more efficient, lighter in weight, and far more functionally powerful than their
vacuum tube or electromechanical predecessors, and they operate at much lower
voltage and power levels. Thus, they are inherently more ~ nsitive to overvoltage
transients, such as those produced by the indirect effects of ;ightn~ng.
The second trend is the increasing use of reinforced plastics and other
nonconducting materials in place of aluminum skins, a practice that reduces the
electromagnetic shielding previously furnished by the conductive skin. This
reduced shielding may greatly increase the level of surges induced in wiring not
76