stroke increases. The bright line at the right of the picture is called the return
and will be discussed shortly.
Boys camera photograph α lightning leader. of 1.8 Figure
tF From such hotographs it has been learned that the leader advances at
ξ 1.12). 1 2 about to μ/σ, or 0.03 to 0.06% of the speed of light (Reference 10
ξ C 2 In order that α charge of to 20 o - ~ be deposited by α leader advancing at 1
ξ 20 the rate of μ/σ requires the average current in the leader, ip, to be to 1 lo5
200 Α. Α current of this magnitude could be carried only in α highly conducting
arc discharge, the assumed central conducting filament of the leader. Such an arc
would have α diameter on the order of α few millimeters and an axial voltage
ξ 4 gradient, gp, of about lo3 V/μ. Α leader km long would then have α 5
ξ voltage drop along its length of lo7 V. The longitudinal resistance, RQ, of 2
the conducting filament gy/iQ would then be in the range of 40 to 400 ohms per
meter (Rim).
While of less importance as regards aircraft, it might be noted that leaders
sometimes start at the ground and work their way toward the sky. This happens
most frequently from tall buildings towers, or from buildings or towers or
located atop hills. Generally, one can tell from the direction of the lightning
flash branching whether the leader started at the cloud or at the ground: if the
branching is downward (Figure the leader originated at the cloud; the if 1.9),
branching is upward, the leader originated at the ground.
1.2.4 The Return Stroke
As the negatively charged step-leader approaches the ground, positive
charge accumulates in the ground underneath it or, more accurately, negative
charge is repelled away from the region under the leader. At some point the
electric field strength around objects on the ground becomes sufficiently high
that α streamer starts at the ground and works its way toward the downward-
approaching leader. When the streamers meet, the conducting filament in the
center of each streamer provides α low-impedance path so that the charge stored
in the head of the leader can flow easily to ground. As the current in the central