estimated from the quantities listed in a data sheet description prepared by
manufacturers for a diode or a transistor.
16.4 Limitations
Certain limits to the accuracy and application of the theoretical and
empirical models exist and must be noted in estimating component device
vulnerability. The models have been verified only for diodes and bipolar
transistors. Other devices, such as FETS and unijunction transistors, have been
tested in insufficient numbers for conclusions to be drawn as to their
conformance with the model. Also, the results and models which are presented
apply strictly only to an isolated device--that is, not to a device in a circuit. In
the case of a multiple-terminal device, they apply only to the two terminals
connected for test, with any other terminals open.
The assumptions made about junction heating and transfer of heat in the
derivation of the models limit their applicability to the region of pulse durations
20 ps. For longer times appreciable heat transfer may of approximately 0.1 to
take place away from the junction area during the pulse input. For short pulses
(1 the power levels are so high to 10 kW) that very large currents flow;
consequently, the joule heating in the bulk material is appreciable. The
transition behavior between these three regions of pulse duration (regions that
will be more preciseIy described later in this section) is not well defined and may
vary from one device type to another. Examination of available data indicates
the transition region generally occurs between 100 ns and 1 MS.
Still another limitation is fundamental to the work summarized in this
section: it applies only to junctjon burnout. Other modes of device failure, such
as metallization burnout and internal arcing, are not treated. Based on the results
obtained in studies of junction burnout, it would seem that other effects, such
as metallization burnout, occur at higher power input levels than those input
levels sufficient to damage the junction.
16.5 Failure Mechanisms--Semiconductors
PN The two principal breakdown modes for semiconductor junctions are
the following:
I . Surface damage around the junction as a result of arcing
Internal damage to the junction region as a result of elevated 2.
temperatures.
refers to the establishment of a high-leakage path around the Surfuce damage
junction which effectively eliminates any junction action. The junction itself is
not necessarily destroyed, since, if it were possible to etch the conducting
material away from the surface, the device might be able to return to its normal
operating state. This is not practical, of course, an operational semiconductor. in
It is equally likely that the formation of any surface leakage path would be the
result of excessive heat formation in the bulk of the material, and this would
typically be an irreversible phenomenon. It is very difficult to predict