capacitance-type fuel quantity probes or small electric motors which operate
pumps or valves. If these wires are totally enclosed by metal skins and ribs or
spars, the internal magnetic fields and induced voltages will be relatively low.
Electrical devices, such as fuel probes, have been intentionally designed to
withstand comparatively higher voltages without sparking. The fuel system
designer, however, must be continually alert for structural design or materials
changes that may alter this situation and permit excessive induced voltages to
appear in fuel tank electrical circuits.
number of measurements have been made of the voltages which Α
simulated lightning currents may induce in fuel probe wiring found in
conventional aircraft. Measurements have also been made of the voltages
required to cause α spark between the elements of typical capacitance-type fuel
quantity probes. The sparkover voltages have always been found to be much
higher than those found to be induced in the wiring. Newman, Robb, and
Stahmann (Reference 6.61) found that at least 3 000 V of dc voltage were
required to cause α spark between the active and grounded cylinders of α
capacitance-type fuel probe found in α KC-135 aircraft wing, and that even
higher voltages were needed to spark over the other gaps in this probe. Plumer,
50 ,us impulse voltage (Reference 6.62) ran α similar test using the 1.2 ξ
Report waveform specified as Voltage Waveform C of SAE Lightning Test
and found that Waveforms and Techniques for Aerospace Vehicles and Hardware
12 kV were required to cause α spark between the inner and outer cylinders of
the probe. Small gaps like this will withstand more impulse than dc voltage, and
the impulse test more realistically represents an induced voltage.
The tests reported above were made at atmospheric pressure on the
ground; the same gap would break down at α lower voltage when at the lower air
pressures associated with flight altitudes. The amount of reduction to be
expected in impulse sparkover voltage at various altitudes can be determined
from the curves of Figure 6.39(α) and (β) (Reference 6.63). The product, pd, of
Hg) pressure (mm and gap distance (mm) is first determined by obtaining
pressure at altitude from the chart of Figure 6.39(χ). If it is desired to find the
5 mm gap at 10 000 μ altitude, for example, the pressure sparkover voltage of α
at this altitude is first determined from the chart to be 198.16 μ μ Hg. The
Hg) 990.8 mm Hg mm. From product, pd, would then be (5 mm) (198.16 mm =
Figure 6.39(β), the gap would spark over at about 5500 V.
The sparkover voltages of Figures 6.39(α) and (β) should be considered
approximate, since these curves were determined for plane parallel electrodes
only. Other electrode configurations, such as α sharp point-to-plane, would spark
at voltages perhaps 25% more or less than these. Impulse sparkover tests should
be made on particular gap configurations to determine the actual sparkover
voltages.
Contaminants on the electrode surfaces may also act to reduce the
breakdown voltage; therefore, it is wise in any case to reduce voltage levels
measured by laboratory tests by α factor of at least 2 when assigning α withstand
voltage to α fuel probe or other electrical gap that might appear in α fuel tank.