1 1 CHAPTER
THE INTERNAL FIELDS COUPLED THROUGH APERTURES
MagneticFields 11.1
The most important mode by which magnetic fields are coupled from the
exterior of the aircraft to the interior is coupling through magnetic apertures.
There are two major reasons for the importance of aperture-coupled fields. The
is that some apertures may be quite large, windows being a prime example. first
The second reason is that, unlike fields coupled by diffusion through metal
surfaces, the waveshape of the interior field is not retarded, but tends to be the
same for small apertures as that of the external magnetic field. The most
important consequence of the coupled magnetic fields relates to the voltages
A induced by such fields. field of given peak intensity is more apt to cause
trouble if it rises to its peak quickly than if it is delayed and distorted.
Physically, the basic problem is as shown on Figure 11.1. An external
magnetic field tangential to a metal surface passes across an aperture. At the
aperture some of the lines of magnetic force leak into the interior region.
Analytically, the problem is to be able to determine the field strength at any
point in the interior volume, preferably to be able to determine both the
magnitude and the direction of the magnetic field.
Often the analytical problem is best solved by placing in the plane of the
aperture an equivalent magnetic dipole, the fields around which may then be
determined from dipole theory. The strength of the equivalent dipole is
determined by the strength of the external magnetic field and by the size, shape,
and orientation of the aperture. A geometry amenable to mathematical analysis
11.2) (Figure is that of an elliptical aperture in a conductive sheet of a size large
enough to separate completely the interior volume in which the fields are to be
calculated from the exterior volume in which the basic magnetic field exists. In
the following analysis we will treat only fields tangential to the conductive
as surface, since, explained in the previous sections, a magnetic field with
components perpendicular to the conductive surface induces circulating currents
that initially cancel the penetrating component.
Mathematically the problem is most directly solved if the external
magnetic field is resolved into two components, Hx and Hy, lying along an axis
directed through the major and minor axes of the elliptical aperture. These field
components give rise to two equivalent magnetic dipoles, M, and My, again
oriented along the major and the minor axes of the aperture. The strength of
these dipoles is a function of the strength of the external magnetic field that
would exist in the plane of the aperture if the aperture were absent. The
I I governing expressions (Reference .I) are