fi
c7-JJ
SIDE ELEVATION
a
SURFACES lop&
INDICATES PENETRATION
OF METAL SKIN
UNDER SURFACES :
.
BURN INDICATES MARKS
WITHOUT PENETRATION ' ,
Position of lightning strikes on Viscount aircraft March to 1959 - 5.1 Figure
June 1964.
of the wing tips located within 18 inches of the tip measured parallel to the
Lateral axis of the aircraft, and surfaces within 18 inches of the leading edge on
wings having leading edge sweep angles of more than 45 degrees." Also included
" [p] rojections such as engine nacelles, external fuel tanks, propeller disc, are
and fuselage nose"; in the tail group all surfaces "within 18 inches of the tips of
horizontal and vertical stabilizer, trailing edge of horizontal stabilizer, tail cone,
and any other protuberances," as well as "[a] ny other projecting part which
a might constitute point of direct stroke attachment."
2 as including "[s]urfaces for which there is a FAA defines Zone
probability of strokes being swept rearward from a Zone 1 point of direct stroke
attachment. This zone includes surfaces which extend 18 inches laterally to each
I side of fore-and-aft lines passing through the Zone forward projection points
of stroke attachment. Ail fuselage and nacelle surfaces, including 18 inches of
2" are included in Zone (Reference adjacent surfaces, not defined as Zone I
B 2 5.4). (FAA does not subdivide Zone 1 or Zone into A and zones as
F.) recommended by SAE Task
Thus, the establishment of the lightning attachment zones for aircraft of
conventional configuration is relatively straightforward and can done with be
reasonable accuracy. Prediction of the lightning attachment zones for new
aircraft of unconventional design is not as easily accomplished by reference to
inflight data or to the FAA 18-inch criteria. Such an aircraft might look like the
one in Figure 5.4 (Reference 5.5). The gradual blending of fuselage and wing
lines makes identification of the regions of maximum electric field stress (and
lightning attachment) less easy to distinguish. With the exception of the pointed