its quantitative relationship to damage severity, is deferred until protective
5. measures are discussed, beginning with Chapter
4.2 Direct Effects on Metal Structures
Metal structures include the outer skins of the aircraft together with
internal metallic framework, such as spars, ribs, and bulkheads. Because lightning
currents must flow between lightning entry and exit points on an aircraft and
because these currents tend to spread out as they flow between attachment
points, using the entire airframe as a conductor, the aluminum with which most
of these structures are fabricated provides excellent electrical conductivity. As a
result, the current density at any single point in the airframe is rarely sufficient
to cause physical damage between entry and exit points. Only if there is a poor
electrical bond (contact) between structural elements in the current flow path is
On there Iikely to be physical damage. the other hand, where the currents
or converge to the immediate vicinity of an entry exit point, there may be a
sufficient concentration of magnetic force and resistive heating to cause damage.
Damage at these points is further compounded by the lightning arc, from which
intense heat and blast forces emanate. Discussion of individual effects follows.
4.2.1 Melting and Burnthrough
If a lightning arc touches a metal surface for a sufficient time, melting of
the metal will occur at the point of attachment. Common evidences of this are
the successive pit marks often seen along a fuselage or empennage, as shown in
in the trailing edges of wings or Figure 4.2 (Reference 4.2) or the holes burned
empennage tips, as shown in Figure 4.3 (Reference 4.3). Most holes are melted
1 (0.040") thick, or less, except at trailing edges, where the in skins of rnrn
lighting arc may hang on for a longer time and enable holes to be burned
through much thicker pieces. Since a relatively large amount of time is needed
for melting to occur, the continuing currents are the Iightning-flash components
most conducive to melting and burnthrough. Melting or burnthrough of skins is
usually not a safety-of-flight problem unless this occurs in an integral fueI tank
skin.
4.2.2 Magnetic Force
the Metal skins or structures may also be deformed as a result of intense
magnetic fields which accompany concentrated lightning currents near attach-
ment points. It is well known that parallel wires with current traveling in the
same direction are mutually attracted to each other. If the structure near an
attachment point is viewed electrically as being made up of a large number of
to parallel conductors converging this attachment point, then as lightning
current flows from the point, forces occur which tend to draw these conductors
closer together. If a structure is not sufficiently rigid, pinching or crimping may
4.4 occur, as shown in Figure (Reference The amount of damage created is 4.4).