6 CHAPTER
FUEL SYSTEM PROTECTION
Introduction 6.1
Because of the hazardous nature of most fuels and the potential for
catastrophe if ignition should occur, the design of adequate lightning protection
for the aircraft fuel system is probably the most important lightning protection
job t o be accomplished. This is the system that government airworthiness
certification requirements stress most heavily, for the cause of the most tragic of
lightning-related aircraft accidents has been attributed to the vulnerability of
fuel systems.
Elements of the fuel system are typically spread throughout much of an
aircraft and occupy much of its volume. They include the fuel tanks themselves,
as well as associated vent and transfer plumbing, and electrical controls and
instrumentation. Careful attention must be paid to all of these elements if
adequate protection is to be obtained.
The main objective of fuel system protection is of course to prevent any
direct or indirect source of ignition of the fuel by lightning. Accomplishment of
this goal is quite challenging when it is remembered that thousands of joules of
energy must be conducted through the airframe when the aircraft is struck by
- lightning, that every metallic structural element in and on the aircraft is involved
2 lo4 x to some degree in this conduction process, and that a tiny spark of
joule may be all of the energy that need be released inside a fuel tank to ignite a
fire or initiate an explosion.
Prevention of fuel ignition from lightning must be accomplished b y at least
one of the following approaches:
removing one or more of the requirements for combustion (a)
eliminating all sources of ignition. (b)
In this chapter we review typical aircraft fuel flammability characteristics
and possible ways to control fuel flammability and ignition. Research in the field
of fuel system protection distinguishes the areas of adequate knowledge and
practice from areas of inadequate knowledge and practice. Because current
guidelines for controlling lightning-related ignition derive in part from this
research, we refer in some detail to several important studies, by way of
background, before presenting guidelines for effective protection of fuel
systems.
Fuel Flammability 6.2
Ignition of fuel cannot occur until some of the fuel has become vaporized
and mixed in a compatible proportion with oxygen or air. Thus, the ability of
fuels to vaporize and mix with air in typical aircraft fuel tanks is of primary
concern.
The flammability of the vapor space in a fuel tank varies according to the
concentration of evaporated fuel in the available air. Reducing the fuel-to-air