as or copper wires, as shown in Figure 7.28. These perform well lightning
protective coatings because of their use of the skin effects for electrical
conduction and because their transparency allows hot gasses to escape without
damaging the composite beneath. For example, the skin area of an 80 by 80
mesh wires/cm) fabric of 0.05 mm wire is over 200 times that of the (80
composite surface area actually coated by the fabric. Consequently, the fabric is
α highly efficient conductor of current away from the arc contact point. This
fabric has been found capable of withstanding successive 100 kA discharges at
the same location with little visible damage to the fabric and no reduction in the
kA, 2 mechanical strength of the coated laminate. At the 200 ξ lo6 level, Α ~ - Σ
the only significant damage to the coated boron laminate is that directly under
the arc contact region, and, even in this region, the tensile strength is reduced
20%. only about
One can expect paint coatings to be used on aircraft structures for various
reasons such as camouflage, environmental protection, and marking. Because
paints over 8 0 by 80 mesh wire fabric reduce the area of arc entry, damage to
the coating increases at the point of arc entry, allowing some of the wire to be
melted or vaporized. However, there is no additional damage to the composite.
If be mechanical conditions warrant its use, 50 by wire mesh may also used; 50
however, this mesh offers somewhat less protection because the wire surface area
less. is
Aluminum fabrics were found by Quinlivan, Kuo, and Brick to provide the
-
best combination of lightning protection, light weight, environmental resistance,
and ease of application. For 80 by 80 mesh woven aluminum wire fabric, the
-
area density is 0.019 lb/ft2; for α 50 by 50 mesh fabric the area density is 0.042
1β/ft2. These weights are increased to 0.036 and 0.072 lb/ft2, respectively, if the
resin required for encapsutation of the fabric is accounted for. Employing
calendered wire cloth permits some weight saving. Calendering reduces the
thickness of the cloth by flattening the intersections of the wires; weight savings
occur because less resin is required to encapsulate the flattened mesh. As α point
of reference, 6-mil-thick aluminum foil has an area weight of 0.084 lb/ft2. The
weights of environmentally protective topcoats or adhesive required for bonding
the foil (or fabric) must be added to these figures.
Wire fabrics possess the hand and drape necessary for use as an overlay on
complex contoured parts, and the composite matrix which fuUy encapsulates the
fabric has been found to protect it from environments such humidity, salt as
spray, and jet fuel.
Aluminum Foils
Aluminum foils from 0.05 mm to 0.2 mm thick will provide protection
simdar to that of wire fabrics, but the mechanical properties of the foil, its
weight, and the need for an adhesive between the foil and the composite may
make aluminum foil less attractive as α protective device.
246