2, conductor located on the inside of the trailing edge, would be better placed.
and 4, in that order, would be in the regions of lowest magnetic Conductors 3
flux. A conductor that could be run inside a major structural member, as shown
4, by conductor will be exposed to a minimum amount of magnetic flux.
5, located at the forward edge of the wing, would be in a well- Conductor
shielded region if the forward edge of the wing were metal, but it would be in a
high field region and therefore vulnerable if the forward edge were a nonmetallic
5 would not be covering. However, even if the covering were metallic, conductor
4. in as protected a region as that of either conductor or conductor 3
15.3, Windshield posts, shown in Figure tend to concentrate the current
flowing on the exterior surface of the vehicle, particularly if a flash is swept
back, contacting the windshield post directly or the eyebrow region above the
windshield. Since the current is concentrated, the magnetic field intensity inside
by the crew compartment tends t o be very high. The situation is aggravated the
fact that the windshields, unlike other regions where the field might have to
diffuse through the metal surfaces, act as large apertures and so allow the
internal magnetic flux to build to its peak values very rapidly. Instruments and
wiring on the control panels are thus in a region of inherently high magnetic
field strength. Conductors that run from overhead control panels (position A) to
B) are often run along the windshield center posts. other instruments (position
They are thus in a region of the most concentrated magnetic fields likely to be
found on an aircraft, and accordingly they may have induced in them the highest
voltages.
1 5.4 Improvement Through Shielding
In order to make an electronic system immune to the effects of lightning,
it is almost always necessary to make judicious use of shielding on interconnect-
In 15.4 shows some of the basic considerations. Figure 15.4(a) ing wiring. Figure
an unshielded conductor, being exposed to the full magnetic field inside the
structure, will have high voltages developed across the high-impedance
terminations. The presence of a shield grounded at only one end will not
significantly affect the magnitude of the voltage induced by changing magnetic
fields, although a shield may protect against changing electric fields. While a
shield may keep the voltage at the grounded end low, it will allow the voltage on
the signal conductors to be high at the unshielded end.
Shielding against magnetic fields requires the shield to be grounded at both
ends, as shown in Figure 15.4(b), in order that it may carry a circulating current.
It is the circulating current that cancels the magnetic fields that produce
common-mode voltages. There is some merit in grounding such a shield at
multiple points, since frequently the cable will be exposed to a significant
amount of magnetic field over only a small portion of its total length. If the
shield is multiple-grounded, the circulating currents will tend to flow along only
one portion of the cable whereas, if it is grounded at only the two ends, current
is constrained to flow the entire length of the cable. There is likewise some
virtue in staggering the spacing between multiple ground points on a cable shield,