A flame-suppression system developed by Fenwal, Inc. (Reference 6.15)
for industrial applications was also tested in this program. This system consisted
of a fast-acting sensor for detecting the presence of a flame and a set of canisters
containing a quantity of liquid suppressing agent for release into the surge tank
by an electric detonator. When the detector sees the light of the flame, it sends a
pulse to the detonator, which disperses the extinguishant into the tank within a
few milliseconds of flame sensing, before the flame itself has reached the tank.
This system effectively suppressed those flames which traveled slowly enough
(30 mls or less) to give the system time (18 ms) to react, but did not stop those,
of course, which had gone past the surge tank by the time the extinguishant was
released. In the latter case the extinguishant might still extinguish the fire in the
surge tank, but the flame front on its way through interconnecting vent lines to
the fuel tanks would have passed out of the reach of the extinguishant.
The Atlantic Research-LTRI program also included an investigation of arc
plasma propagation into the vent line, which was inconclusive because of
instrumentation difficulties. The question of icing of the successful flame
arrester was also considered (Reference 6.16), resulting in the conclusion that
unacceptable icing would occur only when the worst combination of atmos-
pheric and flight conditions existed. This conclusion, however, is based on
analysis only and should be verified by flight tests if this arrester or any other is
to be incorporated into an aircraft fuel system.
6.4.1 Airflow Velocity Effects
Lightning attachment to the lip of a vent outlet was assumed to be
possible in the Atlantic Research-LTRI and Lockheed programs reviewed in the
preceding paragraphs. No attempt, however, was made in these programs to
establish whether or not this phenomenon could in fact occur to an aircraft in
flight or, if it could, how often. Yet neither the Elkton airplane nor any other
airplane known to have been struck by lightning has shown evidence of lightning
attachment to a vent outlet, and the outlet in the B-707, while located near the
the very tip of the wing, where lightning is known to wing tip, is not located at
attach. It is therefore improbable that flush-mounted vents, such as those on the
B707, will receive direct strikes. These questions then arise: Could an arc sweep
across the outlet from another point and ignite the effluent?; if so, How close to
the outlet must such an arc pass to cause ignition?; and Is it possible for
streamering to be induced at the vent outlet and ignite an effluent? Answers to
these questions were sought by Newman and others, who undertook an
experimental program (Reference 6.17) during 1966 and 1967. Simulated
lightning strikes were delivered to a B-707 wing tip and vent assembly to learn
more about these possibilities, as well as the degree to which air flowing past at
realistic flight speeds would make ignition unlikely even if an arc did in fact
become attached to the outlet.
Whereas in earlier programs ignitions were obtained nearly 100% of the
time when the vent outlets were in still air, Newman found that ignition of a 1.5