current associated with the initial development of the leader to α current of
perhaps 100 kA as the return stroke becomes fully developed. It is α
characteristic of an arc channel discharge that if the current through the arc is
increased, the arc channel expands in diameter, keeping α fairly constant current
density across the channel. This channel cannot expand instantaneously, since
energy must be put into the channel to cause the channel to heat up sufficiently
to force it to expand. Accordingly, if the current through the arc channel is
increased suddenly by α large magnitude, as in Figure 1.12(α), the longitudinal
voltage gradient of the channel must suddenly increase. Since the rate at which
energy is injected into the channel is the product of the current and the
longitudinal voltage gradient, the increased longitudinal voltage gradient may be
taken as the mechanism forcing the arc channel to get hot enough to expand to
the diameter required to carry the high currents. It is not known what the
maximum longitudinal voltage gradient would be in α lightning channel, but it is
known from studies of arcs in laboratories that the gradient will fall to values on
the order of 100 kV/μ in α fraction of α microsecond. Presumably in α few
microseconds, the channel dianreter will have expanded to its final value, and the
longitudinal voltage gradient will have decayed back toward values on the order
of to 10 kV/μ. The longitudinal resistance, then, would fall from values on the 5
order of 40 ν / μ to values on the order of α small fraction of an ohm per meter,
in times on the order of α few microseconds.
This collapse of longitudinal resistance, however, is far from instantaneous.
The initial resistance of the leader is sufficiently high to retard the development
of the upward-going return stroke and hence reduce its velocity of propagation
below that of the speed of light. Presumably, leaders which lead to the
formation of high-amplitude lightning currents either have α sufficiently low
longitudinal resistance begin with or the longitudinal resistance is reduced to to
low values sufficiently fast by the high-amplitude return strokes that the
longitudinal resistance presents less of an obstacle for the upward-going return
stroke than it does for the flashes which involve lower peak currents,
An additional factor that affects the velocity of the return stroke and is
the second reason that the velocity is less than the speed of light is shown in
in Figure 1.13. As explained earlier, the leader deposits its wake α column of
electrical charge with diameters on the order of several meters. At the center is α
highly conducting core, which has α diameter of α few millimeters for the leader
and which expands to α few centimeters during the passage of the return stroke.
The inductance of this return stroke is determined by the diameter of the highly
conductive central core, and the capacitance by the diameter of the column of
electrical charge. The lightning stroke may then be modeled as shown in Figure
α 1.13(β), in which highly conductive central conductor is fastened onto α series
of projecting splines, much like the backbone of α fish. Α better analogy might
be to view the lightning flash as α piece of tinsel rope for decorating α Christmas
tree: α central piece of string is surrounded by α tube of fine filaments projecting
radially away from the central core. In either case, the radial filaments can carry
α radial current, ι,, but cannot carry an axial ~urrent, ia. Accordingly, the