452 aircraft. Oscillogram No. in Figure 14.21 indicated the rate of change of
field as failing to zero at about 400 ys. This would indicate that the field itself
reached its crest value in about 400 ys. The different nature of the response of
the fields inside the gun bay and the battery compartment can be explained in
terms of the types of covers and fasteners used on the two compartments. The
cover over the battery compartment was held in place by fasteners spaced about
every cm, and hence made good contact to the rest of the airframe. The use 3.8
of multiple fasteners resulted in minimum constriction of the current flow and
minimum resistance to the circulating current within the battery compartment.
The gun bay covers, on the other hand, since they were originally designed for
fast access time, had far fewer fasteners. The fasteners in the gun bay, in fact,
were spaced about every cm. Accordingly, the cover on the gun bay provided 30
a much greater constriction of current flow and a much greater resistance than
did the cover on the battery compartment. Both of these factors were of a
nature to allow the field within the gun bay to reach its peak value faster than
did the field within the battery compartment.
Some of the significant points about the results of tests on this aircraft
may be summarized here. The first was that the use of a single-point ground
system most emphatically did not eliminate all transient voltages produced by
the flow of lightning current through the structure of the aircraft. The second
was that the characteristic response of the wiring, both for voltage and for
I MHL. 5 to The current, was a damped oscillation with a frequency in the range
very abbreviated series of test results just presented does not indicate the fact
clearly, but the frequency of oscillation depended considerably on the length of
the circuit involved: the longer the physical length of the wires, the lower the
oscillatory frequencies. This was not a clear-cut rule, since the response of any
one circuit was greatly influenced by the high degree of coupling between all of
the different circuits. The third significant point is that the total current on any
cable bundle was of the order of 20 to 100 A for an average lightning flash. This
bulk cable current was again oscillatory with a frequency tending to correspond
to the length of the cable bundle. The equipment bays in this aircraft, not being
designed for electromagnetic shielding qualities, allowed significant amounts of
magnetic flux to develop within those bays. This is particularly true of those
bays intended for ease of access. As a rule of thumb, it might be expected that
on aircraft the equipment bays housing electronic equipment might well be
fitted with covers designed more with ease of access in mind than with magnetic
shielding qualities in mind. It must thus be expected that those enclosures for
which the electromagnetic shielding should principle be the greatest may well In
be those enclosures having the poorest shielding.
No attempt was made to determine in this aircraft the degree to which any
circuit voltages could be reduced by the use of shielded conductors. was I t
noted, however, that on those circuits in which a shield was used and in which
the shield was grounded at more than one point, the current on that shield
tended more to have the slower double exponential waveshape of the external
lightning current than to have the high-frequency oscillatory current excited on
all of the unshielded cable bundles.
426