C The values of and α of Equation 2.4 are then substituted into Equation
as follows: 2.6 and the equation solved for V,
1 (30ξ 05j [(O. o - ~ ) (0.02)~] ξ 1 1 1 =
(2.7)
2 . 2 2 ~ 10-12
0 . 0 0 1 3 2 ~ 0~000594ξ108 - - =
2.22ξ 10-11-
59.4 kV =
Since the cloud and ground charge centers already establish an ambient field,
59.4 kV is the potential at which the aircraft must be relative to the ambient
field for streamering to occur. If the capacitance of even α large aircraft is no
more than about 2000 pF, as given by Equation 2.2, then the maximum amount
of charge which the aircraft can retain is
(C) Q 1 8 . 8 ~ 1 0 - ~ coulombs 1 =
= Q (PC) 100 microcoulombs
This can be considered the amount of charge which α leader can deliver to
the aircraft before streamers occur from opposite extremities. If additional
charge flows onto the aircraft, more profuse streaming will occur, and from
extremities of larger radii of curvature. In fact, the maximum charge which can
be on the aircraft probably exceeds by up to 100 times the streamer initiation
value. However, statistics on natural lightning characteristics show that α typical
C to 10 (Reference 2.Σ), so there is still no room for any leader contains about 1
significant portion of this to accumulate on an aircraft. Thus, the aircraft merely
becomes an extension of the path being taken by the leader on its way to an
ultimate destination at α reservoir of opposite polarity charge. Streamers may
propagate onward from two or more extremities of the aircraft at the same time.
If so, the incoming leader will have split, and the two (or more) branches will
continue from the aircraft independently of each other until one or both of
them reach their destination. This process of attachment and propagation
onward from an aircraft is shown in Figure 2.3.
When the leader has reached its destination and α continuous ionized
channel between charge centers has been formed, recombination of electrons
and positive ions occurs back up the channel, and this forms the high-amplitude
return stroke current. This stroke current and any subsequent stroke or
continuing current components must flow through the aircraft, which is now
part of the conducting path between charge centers, as shown in Figure 2.4(α).
If another branch of the original leader reaches the ground before the
branch which has involved the aircraft, the return stroke will follow the former,
No and all other branches will die out, as shown in Figure 2.4(β). substantial