6.8.3 Joints and Interfaces in Pipes and Couplings
Because they are metallic and come in contact with structure, the myriad
of fuel, hydraulic and vent pipes, and other plumbing inside a fuel tank will have
to conduct some, however small, amounts of current when lightning currents are
flowing through the structure containing them. This current may cause sparking
is intermittent or poor electrical at pipe joints and couplings where there
conductivity. Some pipe couplings, for example, are designed to permit relative
motion between the mating ends of a pipe so as to relieve mechanical stresses
caused by wing flexure and vibration. Also, anodized or other electrically
insulating coatings are often applied to the pipe ends and couplings to control
corrosion. Relative motion and vibration may wear this insulation away,
providing unintentional and intermittent conductive paths. To date, almost no
quantitative information has been developed to describe the amounts of current
or voltage necessary to cause a spark, nor has this possibility been related to the
design or condition of a particular system. Yet this sparking may have been a
factor in the cause of the several in-flight explosions associated with lightning
strikes cited earlier in this book. This aspect should, therefore, be given
particular attention in the design of aircraft fuel systems.
6.8.3.1 Lightning Currents in Plumbing
Because of their relatively short duration, the high-amplitude, short-
duration stroke currents will not have time to spread very deeply into interior
structural elements or other interior conductors. Most of this current will remain
in metallic skins, but this current does begin immediately to diffuse into
underlying metallic structure. Appreciable current levels may be reached in
spars, stringers, pipes, and other internal conductors if the lightning stroke
persists long enough.
The basic penetration, or current process is described in redistribution,
8, and it is shown that penetration times for typical aircraft skins are of Chapter
the order of several tens of microseconds. If the stroke current were to remain at
its peak amplitude for a time longer than this, dc conditions would be
approached and the current would be distributed resistively, with a significant
portion of it flowing in the internal structure. Fortunately, the stroke current
does not remain at its peak level for more than a few microseconds. The amount
of this stroke current which, under typical lightning-stroke conditions, can
actually flow on internal pipes is not yet known, and determination of the
magnitude of this current cannot yet be done confidently by analysis.
Laboratory tests in which simulated lightning currents are forced through
complete fuel tank structures can be performed, however, and the current in
particular pipelines can be measured.
Intermediate and continuing currents do persist for times long enough for
the penetration process to be completed, and it is possible to estimate, as
follows, the amount of current that may flow in a pipe after dc intermediate
conditions are reached.