C-D. resistivity of the material along the path To these potentials must be added
the voltage induced magnetically by the changing magnetic flux passing through
B, D. C, and If the spacing of the conductor to the loop defined by the points A,
C-B and D-A become zero, there will the wall is made vanishingly small, so that
V1 be no magnetic flux; hence the voltage between points A and D will be only
C-D. the resistive voltage drop along the path As in the cylindrical geometry
case, the voltage for a step-function current injected into the exterior of the tube
10.6. will build up according to the pattern shown in Figure Its magnitude will
be greater than the dc resistance drop by the ratio to which the initial current
density on the exterior along the end of the ellipse exceeds the steady state
current density.
V2 a will again be the sum of a resistive voltage drop and magnetically
induced drop, this time along the path E-F-C-D. The resistive component will be
V1, identical to the resistive component of the resistance drop along the path
C-D. V2, For however, there will be a nonzero magnetic component of voltage
a finite amount of magnetic flux through the finite produced by the passage of
loop EFCD. The magnetically induced component of voltage will be given by
K is a proportionality constant relating the flux produced in the loop where
EFCD to the internal current. In Equation 10.26, however, it was shown that
the internal current was proportional to the integral of the internal resistance
drop. This leads to the rather unusual observation that the magnetically induced
component of voltage has, initially at least, the same waveshape as the
component of voltage produced by the flow of internal current density through
the resistance of the material. The long term response of the magnetically
induced voltage will be different from the resistively generated component,
since, as steady state conditions are reached and the internal magnetic field
reaches its final value, its rate of change of the internal magnetic field will
decrease to zero.
The amount of the magnetically induced voltage will depend upon the
location of the conductor and upon the degree to which the initial distribution
of magnetic flux around the outside of the cylinder differs from the final
distribution of magnetic flux. Since the difference between the initial and the
final flux patterns is greater for cylinders of high eccentricity than it is for
cylinders of low eccentricity, it follows that the flatter the cylinder, the greater
will be the influence of the magnetic component.
10.2.4 Experimental Verification
In order to demonstrate the above principles, a test was made in which
current was injected into an elliptical cylinder and the voltage on several internal
conductors measured. The physical arrangement of the test setup is shown in
10.18. 47 Figure The cylinder had a major axis of cm, a minor axis of cm 9.4