Equation 7.19, the maximum displacement distance would necessarily be as
folIows:
Maximum
cm 150kV 15 displacement (7.24) = =
kV/cm distance (cm) lo
If this diverter has an inductance of 1.0 then the minimum pH,
displacement distance, by Equation 7.23, is as follows:
Minimum
BA/, (luu
displacement ( 1 φ λ ) =
λ o kV/
distance (cm)
Thus, it can be concluded that the diverter strap should be placed between 5.0
and 15 cm away from α point directly over the protected conductor.
The above analysis assumes that the internal conducting objects are at the
same potential as the conducting structure to which the diverter is bonded. This
assumption is valid because no lightning current flows through the internal
conducting objects, and thus there are no potential differences between them
and α common conducting structure.
The protection of α nonmetallic structure is most important when the
1 structure contains an integral fuel tank. If this combination is located in Zone
2, or Zone α protective diverter system to prevent punctures and the ignition of
be fuel should be applied. Of course the number or size of diverters that may
required can be minimized by making as many as possible of the internal fuel
tank components of nonconductive materials. By so doing, some objects within
the tank which could otherwise be the source of streamers and eventual
attachment points will eliminated. conducting parts that must remain Any be
as possible, inside should then be positioned as far away from the outside skins
6, and they should be devoid of sharp edges, as discussed in Chapter Section 6.7.
an 4) Plumer (Reference 7.1 discusses α particularly challenging situation:
entire wing, including an integral fuel tank, is made of fiberglass; moreover, α
metal capacitance probe, vent pipe, end panels, and filler cap are present. The
be tank is shown in Figure 7.21. The vent line and end plates of this tank could
made of nonconducting materials. The capacitance-type fuel quantity probe, on
the other hand, must of necessity be made of conducting material, and the probe
should be positioned as far as possible from the top and bottom skins.
Figure 7.21 also shows the protective diverters that were designed for the
bottom and top skins of this tank. Diverters will usually be required if there is
conducting object within the tank--and sometimes even if there are no any
conducting objects inside. If the puncture and surface flashover characteristics of
the enclosing skin materials are known, the diverter arrangement can be designed
using Equations 7.19 to 7.23. Frequently, however, when newer materials are
used, puncture and surface flashover information is not available. In this case, α
section of the proposed skin material can be given α high-voltage test to
determine the required diverter spacings, as illustrated in Figure 7.22. The skin
217