electromagnetic environment to the inside of the aircraft is through apertures, it
follows that equipment should be located as far from major apertures as
possible.
Further, since access doors with their imperfectly conducting covers are a
major source of electromagnetic leakage, it follows that equipment should be
located as far from such access doors as possible. In practice this may be more
easily said than done, however, because frequently the purpose of access doors is
to provide ready access to electronic equipment.
One main goal should be to locate electronic equipment toward the center
of the aircraft structure rather than at the extremities, since the electromagnetic
fields tend to cancel toward the center of any structure.
Another main goal should be to locate electronic equipment away from
particularly away from the nose of the aircraft, the outer skin of the vehicle
-
where the radius of curvature of a prime current-carrying path is smallest.
Furthermore, if possible, electronic equipment should be located in shielded
compartments.
Improvement Through Location of Wiring 15.3
The designer has somewhat more control over the routing of wiring used
to interconnect equipment than he does over the location of equipment itself.
Wiring should be located away from apertures and away from regions where the
radius of curvature of structural members or the outer skin is smallest. Moreover,
wiring should be located as close to a ground plane or structural member as
possible. If the structural member is shaped or can be shaped to provide a
trough, the member will provide more inherent shielding than it will if the wiring
is placed on the edge of the member. Some examples of typical structural
members and the best places for bundles of wiring are shown in Figure 15.1. In
each case the structural niember is assumed to be carrying current along its axis.
Some basic principles to follow are these:
The closer a conductor is placed to a metallic ground plane, the less 1.
is the flux that can pass between that conductor and the ground
plane.
2. Magnetic fields are concentrated around protruding structural
members and diverge in inside corners. Hence, conductors located
atop protruding members will intercept more magnetic flux than
conductors placed in corners, where the field intensity is weaker.
Fields will be weaker on the interior of a U-shaped member than 3.
they will be on the edges of that member.
Fields will be lowest inside a closed member. 4.
Some examples of cable routing are shown on Figure 15.2. Along the
interior of a structure a cable clamped to stiffeners, as at position will 1,
A effectively be spaced away from the metal skin by the height of the stiffeners.
conductor along the outside edge of the U-shaped member, as shown by
2 in Figure 15.2(a), may or may not be better placed than conductor conductor
effectiveness depends on how closely the conductor is attached to the side of 1 :