Α Figure flame arrester at this location will certainly reduce the possibility 6.8.
of flames entering the surge tank, although there is no assurance that the arrester
will stop all flames here. And if an arrester is located anywhere in the vent
system, the possibility of its free air passage becoming blocked with ice must be
evaluated, preferably by in-flight tests under the expected environmental
conditions.
(STP) 4. Surge tank protection systems, the purpose of which is to sense
flames initiated at vent outlets and extinguish them before they reach fuel tanks,
are available and should be considered if the vent outlet must be located in or
2. close to Zone or Since the time required from sensing of the flame to 1
dispersion of the extinguishant is several milliseconds, there is α possibility that
STP flames traveling at sonic velocities will outrace the system. Thus, while an
STP system will unquestionably improve overall safety, it must not be relied
upon to provide absolute protection of the vent system.
Ninetydegree bends in the vent lines should be avoided because they 5.
expand the turbulence and surface area associated with propagating flames and
thereby increase the velocity of propagation. Instead, straight or smoothly
curved ducts should be utilized to minimize the possibility of explosive flame
propagation.
Location of the fuel vent outlet in an ascertained Zone area will 6. 3
provide the highest degree of protection of any of the methods described above.
Α recessed or flush outlet is greatly to be preferred over α protruding tube
outlet, which could become α source of corona or streamering when the aircraft
is flying in α strong electric field.
6.5 Fuel Jettison and Drain Pipes
On some aircraft provision exists for dumping (jettisoning) fuel overboard.
Often this provision consists of α pipe extending into the airstream from α fuel
6.12. Α tank, as shown in Figure normally closed, electrically operated valve is
inserted into the pipe, so that it is unlikely α flame could travel past this valve
into the fuel tank. Even if the pipe were struck by lightning while jettisoning
fuel, it is improbable that flames could propagate through the full pipe into the
tank.
Α more likely hazard--if not guarded against in design--is that electrical
sparks will occur from lightning currents flowing across α poor electrical bond
between the pipe and the fuel tank wall, since the wall is frequently coated with
an insulating, corrosion-resistant paint. Bonding jumpers installed across such
joints may be adequate to equalize static charge differentials which sometimes
occur in fuel systems, but these usually have too much inductance to prevent
some lightning current from breaking down insulation and sparking at the
interface between the pipe and tank wall. Clearly the best way is to make the
This may be shortest path also the conductive one, as shown in Figure 6.13.
by done by making the faying surfaces of clean, uncoated metal and/or
providing bare metal-to-metal contact via the rivets or bolts. If there is doubt