2.4 Aircraft Lightning Attachment Zones
Since there are some regions on the aircraft where lightning will not
attach, and others which will be exposed to attachment for only a small portion
of the total flash duration, it is appropriate to define the zones on the aircraft
surface which will be exposed to different components of the flash and therefore
receive different types and degrees of effects. For purposes of aircraft fuel
system protection, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has defined in its
advisory circular AC 20-53 (Reference 2.1 the following zones: 9)
Zone I.
inches of the tip All surfaces of the wing tips located within I8 (a)
measured parallel to the lateral axis of the aircraft, and surfaces
within 18 inches of the leading edge on wings having leading edge
sweep angles of more than 45 degrees
Projections such as engine nacelles, external fuel tanks, propeller (b)
disc, and fuselage nose
inches of the tips of horizontal and vertical Tail group: within 18 (c)
stabilizer, trailing edge of horizontal stabilizer, tail cone, and any
other protuberances
point of direct Any other projecting part that might constitute a (d)
stroke attachment
Zone Surfaces for which there is a probability of strokes being swept 2.
point of direct stroke attachment. This zone rearward from a Zone I
includes surfaces which extend I 8 inches laterally to each side of
forward projection points of fore-and-aft lines passing through the Zone 1
stroke attachment. All fuselage and nacelle surfaces, including inches of 18
I , 2. are included in Zone adjacent surfaces not defined as Zone
Zone I Surfaces other than those covered by Zones and 2. Ignition 3.
sources in these areas would exist only in the event of strearnering.
These definitions confine zone boundaries to the 18-inch distances
described above. Even though they have proved adequate for protection of
present-day transport category aircraft, it has been recognized that the lightning
attachment zones of new aircraft designs in fact may not fit these rigid
F of the definitions. Therefore, an industry committee, designated special Task
Society of Auton~otive Engineers (SAE) Committee AE-4 on Electromagnetic
Compatibility, has recently clarified the definition of these zones and broadened
F their application by removal of the arbitrary 1Sinch description. The Task
recommended definitions are as follows (Reference 2.20):
Zone Surfaces of the vehicle for which there is a high probability of 1.
direct iightning-flash attachment or exit