magnitude to the total internal electric field along the length of the shield. This
simple type of coupling is valid for low-frequency or slowly changing external
noise currents. For noise currents sufficiently slow that this model applies, the
waveshape of the internal electric field is the same as the external noise current,
being related by Ohm'σ Law:
E =IR (1 3.3)
Phenomena Physical 13.3.1
Generally the coupling is not as simple as this. If the overall shield is α
solid-walled cylinder, as shown in Figure 13-9, the internal electric field depends
upon the product of the resistivity of the shield material and the density of the
current on the internal surface of the shield. As discussed in Section this 10.1,
internal current density, Ji, will not, in general, be the same as the density of the
current on the external surface of the cylinder. Because of the phenomenon of
skin effect, the current density on the inner surface of the shield will rise more
slowly than does the external noise current. The rate at which the current
density on the inner surface increases will be directly proportional to the
permeability of the field material and to the square of the wall thickness and
inversely proportional to the resistivity of the wall material. Cables with
solid-wall shields and cable trays of solid metal with tightly fitting covers will
typically exhibit this type of behavior.
different type of behavior is commonly observed on cables with braided Α
shields, shown in Figure 13.10. The shields do not provide α perfect conducting
cylinder, for they have α number of small holes which permit leakage. The holes
between the individual bundles of wire forming the shield can be approximated
as α group of diamonds, the size and orientation of which depend upon the
weave angle of the braided shield. The long axis of the triangles may be oriented
Α along the shield, as at end of the cable shown in Figure 13.10(α), or, if the
weave angle is great, the long of the hole may be oriented circumferentially axis
to the cable, as at end Β of the cable. The external noise current produces α
circumferential magnetic field around the outside of the shield. As α first
approximation, one may visualize the external field lines looping in and out of
the holes in the braided shield. There will be more leakage in holes with long
axes oriented circumferentially to the end of the shield (end Β of the cable, large
weave angle) than there will be if the long axes of the holes are oriented along
Α the shield, (end of the cable, small weave angle). Viewed from the end of the
cable, as in Figure 13.10(β), the field that leaks into the cables produces α net
magnetic field circumferentially around the inside surface of the shield. This
magnetic field produces an internal electric field of an amplitude dependent
upon the degree of leakage into the shield and upon the rate of change of the
magnetic field. The rate of change of this internal magnetic fieId is to α first
approximation proportional to the rate of change of the external noise current.
The total internal electric field, then, is proporti.onal to the resistance of the
cable shield, to the rate of change of external noise current, and to the number
of holes in the cable.