Frequently a calculation made to determine the effects of coupling
through apertures needs to take into account the presence of reflecting surfaces.
'Ihe simplest case, shown in Figure 1.6, treats one reflecting surface of infinite 1
dimensions and parallel to the surface containing the aperture. The total field at
any point between the two surfaces is the sum of the fields produced by an
infinite array of images of the original magnetic dipole. The field strength from
each of the images would again be determined from Equations 11.6 through
1 1.1 or 11.1 6 through 1 1.32. Fortunately, in most cases only a few of the 1
images need be considered because of the dependence of field strength on the
cube of the distance to the point under consideration. In principle, additional
reflecting surfaces could be included in the formulation to define completely an
interior volume. Such multiple reflecting surfaces are shown on Figure 11.7.
Typically, one is concerned, not with the magnitude of the fields
themselves, but with the effects of the fields on electrical circuits. typical A
problem, as shown in Figure 11.8, might be determining the voltage produced by
an aperture-coupled magnetic field between a conductor and a metal surface
containing the aperture. That voltage would be determined the total magnetic by
flux passing through the plane defined by the conductor and its projection onto
the metal surface. This total magnetic field would be the summation, both along
the length and across the width of the loop so defined, of the magnetic field
strength normal to the loop. If the field strength were to vary considerably with
position along the loop, it would be necessary to evaluate the field strength at a
number of points across the area of the loop and to perform some sort of
graphical integration to determine the total magnetic flux passing through the
loop. The numerical calculations, while straightforward in principle, would be of
sufficient complexity to make the problem insoluble in any practical sense if all
the calculations had to be made by hand. In order to overcome the numerical