D appear to be during this period that the intermediate current (Component of
Figure 1.1) is developed. As the discharge continues to spread through the cloud,
for times on the order of fractions of a second, currents on the order of a few
hundred amperes continue to flow in the lightning flash. These are referred to as
(Component E of Figure 1.1). As one may expect, there is continuing currents
no clear-cut demarcation between the tail of the return stroke and the
intermediate current, or between the end of the intermediate current and the
start of the continuing current.
Eventually, and usually, the developing discharge within the cloud reaches
into a different cell of the cloud or, at any rate, into a region where there is
another localized body of electrical charge. At this stage there occurs what is
.I). (Component F of Figure 1 The restrike starts with additional called a restrike
charge being lowered from the cloud to form a new leader, or, more properly, to
recharge the central portion of the old leader. Presumably, because of the
residual ionization in the channel, this charging process occurs smoothly, not in
the step-by-step process by which the initial leader penetrates into the virgin air.
Accordingly, this is called a instead of a step-leader. Unlike the initial dart leader
step-leader, the dart leader is seldom branched. When the dart leader reaches
ground level, a return stroke again occurs. The amplitude of this return stroke is
again high, since the current comes from an intensely ionized region close to the
ground. While the amplitude is usually not as high as that of the first return
stroke, the current rises to crest more rapidly than does that of the initial return
stroke, presumably because the upward leader from the ground does not have to
propagate into virgin air.
1.4 Lightning Polarity Direction and
Most Iightning flashes originate in the cloud and lower negative charge to
earth. The question of direction of the lightning flash is sometimes confusing.
With the intent of clarifying matters, the statement is sometimes made that
lightning strikes upward and not downward. This is at least partially true; the
return stroke that produces the high peak currents, thunder, and the highest
intensity light, in fact does start near the ground and grow upward into the
ionized channel previously established by the step-leader, thus tapping the
charge in the step-leader. The step-leader, nevertheless, originated at the cloud.
The source of energy is in the cloud, and the lower amplitude and longer
duration currents have their origin in the charge stored in the cloud. Thus, in
terms of the engineering definition of current, these flashes result in the
direction of current flow from the earth to the cloud. This type is commonly
called a negative polarity flash.
When tall buildings or mountain tops are involved, the lightning flash often
does originate at the ground; the step-leader starts at ground level and propagates
upwards into the cloud. Such flashes seem to be triggered by the high electric
field concentrated around the top of the building or mountain. They may be
recognized by the upward direction of branching, as mentioned earlier and
1.9(b). This type of flash therefore results in current flow from shown in Figure