sparks resulting from lightning current having been conducted through the fuel
tanks caused some of these disasters. Whereas the relatively large amount of
thermal energy released at the points of concentrated lightning current entry
into the aircraft would be expected to leave tell-tale evidence, the marks left by
a several-millijoule spark are very difficult, if not impossible, to detect.
In the past, much attention has been given to keeping lightning currents
out of the interior of the aircraft by providing conductive and tightly bonded
skins. While most lightning currents, by virtue of their short duration, d o not
have sufficient time to diffuse completely to interior structural elements such as
spars and ribs, it is correct to assume that no current flows in these interior not
structures. Nor is it correct to assume that none of the lightning current flows in
other internal conductors such as fuel and vent lines. Since so little energy is
needed for an igniting spark, the behavior of these internal currents is of great
course, when the lightning currents which importance to fuel system safety. Of
do flow in the skin encounter discontinuities at access doors, filler caps, and the
like, a possibility of sparking exists if electrical bonding is inadequate; therefore,
the behavior of lightning currents remaining in the skins-is important.
Electrical wires entering fuel tanks from other locations in the aircraft
pose another potential problem if they are routed in areas which may be reached
by high electromagnetic fields when lightning strikes occur.
Figure 6.30 shows the possible lightning current paths in a typical fuel
tank and calls attention to these areas of greatest concern. In the following
paragraphs we discuss each of these and present guidelines for protection design,
referring to related research or testing experience that exists. We also call
attention to other areas of concern for which little or n o quantitative data is yet
available.
Doors 6.8.1 Filler Caps and Access
The need to provide a liquid-tight seal around fuel tank filler caps and
access doors has led to use of various gaskets and seals between the cap or door
and its mating surface in the tank. Most of these have little or n o electrical
conductivity, leaving the metallic screws or other fasteners as the only
conducting paths into the cover. If these fasteners are inadequate or if they
present too much inductance, lightning currents may build sufficient voltage
along such paths to spark across the nonconducting seals, creating shorter paths.
Some of these sparks may occur at the inside surfaces of the joints and be a
source of fuel ignition.
Newman, Robb, and Stahmann were among the first-to recognize and
evaluate this possibility in the laboratory. They demonstrated (Reference 6.54)
that direct strikes to filler caps or access doors of (then) conventional design
would cause profuse spark showers inside the tank--spark showers of ample
energy to ignite fuel. They applied simulated strokes to typical fuel filler caps
and access doors. Their test strokes ranged in energy from a very mild kA, 35
o6 o6 x kA, 3 I 1 x A2-s stroke toa very severe 180 A2-s stroke; profuse 0.006
sparking occurred under all conditions. When an ignitable fuel mixture was