Use Through 15.6 Circuit Protection of Protective Devices
Circuit protective devices can sometimes be used to limit the amount of
electrical energy that a wire can couple into a piece of electronic equipment.
While one can seldom eliminate interference through the use of circuit protective
devices, circuit protective devices judiciously used can virtually eliminate
physical damage to electronic devices. "Judicious use" usually means that
protective devices must be incorporated into a piece of equipment at the time it
is built, not added after trouble has been experienced.
There are two basic types of overvoltage or transient protection devices
(TPD): those which, on sensing an overvoltage, switch to a low-impedance state
and thus cause the impressed voltage across them to collapse to a low value; and
those which, on sensing an overvoltage, tend (by virtue of their nonlinear
voltage-current relation) to maintain the voltage at that level but do not tend to
collapse the voltage. Examples of the first type are spark gaps or arcing dielectric
devices. Examples of the second type are Zener diodes and varistors. There are
also devices which, on sensing an overvoltage, interrupt the power flow to the
load. If this interruption is accomplished by electromechanical means, they
should not be considered transient protection devices because they are
inherently slow to respond.
Switching devices inherently offer greater surge-power handling capability
than do the Zener or varistor types of devices. The instantaneous power
dissipated in a transient protective device is the product of the surge current
flowing through the device and the voltage across the device. For a constant
surge current, a switching device like a spark gap, across which the voltage is low
while in the conducting state, will have less power released in it than a device
like a Zener diode, across which the surge voltage remains high. For a given
surge-power handling capability, a spark gap will thus be smaller physically than
a Zener diode or varistor device.
Another fundamental difference between switching devices (spark gaps)
and nonswitching devices (Zener diodes or varistors) relates to their recovery
characteristics after the surge has passed. If a line is protected by a spark gap and
if that line is connected to a source of energy (a power bus, for example), that
energy source must be disconnected from the line before the spark gap can
switch back from its low-impedance conducting state to its high-impedance
nonconducting state. Generally this requires opening a circuit breaker on the
A line. Zener diode or varistor effectively ceases to conduct as soon as the
voltage returns to its normal value. Operation of remote circuit breakers is not
required.
All types of overvoltage protection devices inherently operate by reflecting
a portion of the surge energy to its source and by diverting the rest into another
path, all with the intention of dissipating the surge energy in the resistance of
the ground and interconnecting leads. The alternative to reflecting the energy is
to absorb the surge energy in an unprotected load. Reflection and diversion of
the surge energy are not without their hazards. Some are the following: