joints suffer more damage from lightning currents than do bolted joints. Other
tests (Reference 7.25) have also been made on various joints, with similar results.
The reader is referred to these sources for further information on the specific
joints researchers have evaluated and the results they have obtained.
7.3.2.4 Electromagnetic Field Penetration
The importance of keeping the electromagnetic fields produced by
lightning currents away from the aircraft'σ electric wiring is by now clear. In
conventional aircraft this is conveniently and successfully accomplished by the
aluminum skins, and the electrical system designer benefits greatly from this
assistance heretofore given him by the structures designer. Substitution of
composites for aluminum, however, poses an additional threat to the electrical
systems because composites do not possess the excellent shielding property of
aluminum, with the result that the electrical system designer may now have to
provide his own protection against these fields.
The relative shielding effectiveness of composites as compared with various
(H) fields by Fisher and Fassell metals has been measured for magnetic
an (Reference 7.26) by establishing H-field of known intensity on one side of α
of it reaching the other side. composite surface and measuring the amount
Continuous sine-wave fields at several different frequencies were applied to the
top side of α test sample in the arrangement of Figure 7.41, and the shielding
capability of the sample was determined by measuring the voltage induced in α
receiving coil on the other side by that portion of the field which penetrated it.
The current, in the transmitting coil was kept constant during the tests to I,
make sure that reflected fields did not change the level of field radiated in the
first place. The amount of H-field attenuation was then determined by the usual
expression:
v
1
Attenuation 20 Log = -
v 2
where V1 is the voltage induced in the receiving coil when no test sample is
present and V2 is the voltage when α sample of composite or other material is
placed between the coils. The metal enclosure was used to avoid fringing effects.
Figure 7.42 shows the H-field attenuations for boron and graphite composites by
7.43 shows the improvements in shielding effectiveness themselves, and Figure
gained by application of conductive coatings (Reference 7.27).
The measurements of the shielding effectiveness of panels covered with
flame-sprayed aluminum and aluminum foil indicated that most of the shielding
16 came from the aluminum. Values of dB and 20 dB were measured at 0.5 MHz
and 1.0 MHz for 2.1 mm (0.083 in) boron with α coating of flame-sprayed
0.4 mm. aluminum. The thickness of the aluminum was about
Many investigations into the shielding effectiveness of conductive coatings
of enclosures have, of course, been made for other purposes. One is that of Uhlig
(Reference 7.28), who evaluated several conductive coatings applied to 1.2 μ