A determination of the field around the conductor then involves assigning
field values at all of the points between the conductor and its return path, and
adjusting the value of these points until Equation 9.19 is satisfied everywhere
9.3 within the grid. The literature (Reference and 9.4) indicates a number of the
numerical techniques by which the potentials at the points may be adjusted to
their final values. While the process is tedious, it is not completely impractical to
d o by hand. Usually the process is done by computer routines that solve the
field equations. In addition to tabulating the numerical values of the field at the
grid points, frequently such computer routines allow one to plot the flow and
equipotential lines.
Any solution of Laplace's equation will also allow the pattern of coupling
through an aperture, as well as the external field pattern, to be calculated. Most
computer routines deal either with two-dimensional problems or problems with
rotational symmetry. In a twedirnensional case, the aperture would run the
length of the conductor being studied. This is not necessarily a disadvantage,
since some important geometries and apertures are basically two-dimensional.
An important aperture is that which may exist on the trailing edge of a wing
when the flaps have been extended. Since it is a convenient region to reach,
wiring is often placed in this region. Electrically it is a poor place, since the
aperture is near a region where the magnetic fields external to the wing are high.
Another important set of apertures that may be approximated as a continual
opening is that formed by the windows in the fuselage of a transport aircraft.
In principle, the field around three-dimensional objects may also be solved
numerically by extending Equation 9.18 to include 8 points on a cube
surrounding a central point. Solutions of the fields around three-dimensional
objects not involving rotational symmetry are seldom attempted because of the
great increase in the amount of computer storage locations required to define
the field satisfactorily in three dimensions.
9.2.3 Hand Plotting of Fields
The fields around any geometry may also be determined graphically by a
cut-and-try process in which flow lines and equipotential lines are drawn on the
geometry and adjusted until repeated subdivision always yields smalI squares and
the flow and equipotential lines intersect at all points at right angles.
Cut-and-try field plotting, of which Figure 9.8 is an imperfect example,
may with care, patience, and liberal use of a soft pencil and eraser yieId a field
pattern of any desired accuracy.
CaIculation Using Grids 9.2.4 Wire
Another approach to determining current density, shown in Figure 9.9, is
based on the premise that a two-dimensional geometry can be represented as an
array of parallel wires. If the current in each wire is known, the average current
density along the surface defied by any two wires will be the average of the
current on the two wires divided by the spacing between the wires.