Λ, assume that the diverter strap has an inductance, of 1.0 pH/μ of length.
Assume α maximum lightning current rate of rise of 100 kA/ps, and determine
the air-gap impulse sparkover voltage from Figure 6.39 or from impulse voltage
tests of the particular configuration. Then make sure that the inductive voltage
rise
is less than the gap sparkover voltage. It is prudent to add α safety margin of 50%
or more to the calculated inductive voltage when making this comparison.
Foil Thin Strips
Thin foil strips, usually made of aluminum 0.008 to 0.040 cm (0.003 to
0.015 in) thick, are capable of conducting moderate strokes or of melting and
vaporizing on severe strokes. the latter case they leave an ionized channel In
the flash may travel. Because they are through which subsequent currents in
thin, foil strips have good aerodynamic characteristics, but they usually provide
protection against only one severe flash. The thin foil strips are generally used
when aerodynamic drag requirements prevent thicker straps from being installed
on external surfaces. Α typical strip is shown in Figure 7.26.
Thin strip. 7.26 foil Figure
The skin of the structure must be thick enough to withstand safely the
blast pressure that occurs if the strip vaporizes. Thick foil strips may also be
used; however, they release more energy during vaporization than the thinner
foil strips and, therefore, require α thicker radome outer skin. Wide foil strips are
preferred because they distribute the explosive forces over α larger surface area.
Α 0.008 cm (0.003 in) thick 0.64 cm (0.375 in) wide aluminum strip by
ξ 2 will protect α 0.1 cm (0.040 in) thick fiberglass wall from one 200 kA, lo6
stroke and associated intermediate or continuing current, but the strip will Α ~ - Σ
have been vaporized and must be replaced.
Thus, the foil strips should not be used for applications where more than
one strike might occur in the same flight. This caution means that they should
not be used to protect fiberglass fuel tanks or other structures in which α
222