that level of transient that would result in interference with or
malfunction of the equipment. The vulnerability level by definition,
then, would have to be at least as high as the susceptibility level.
There are several ways in which the levels might be set. In the first, the
system integrator would set the desired transient level, then set the required
margin, which in turn would set the transient control level. Whatever the
rationale by which the system integrator sets the transient design level, that level
and would become α part of the purchase specifications would, presumably, not
be subject to variation by the vendor of the avionics. As an alternative, the
avionics designer might determine by suitable testing the vulnerability and
α guarantee as to the level of susceptibility levels of his equipment and provide
transients that his equipment could withstand. That level would then be the
transient design level. After the system integrator had set the desired safety
margin, the appropriate transient control level for the cable designer would have
Space been established, One approach to the setting of margins appears in the
15.3). (Reference Shuttle Lightning Criteria Documei~τ
The numbers that would be assigned to the transient design level probably
should be expressed in terms of the maximum voltage appropriate to α
high-impedence circuit (open circuit voltage) or the maximum current appro-
priate toa low-impedance circuit (short circuit current). In order for the
transient coordination philosophy to have most impact, there should be α
limited number of levels. One set of levels that has been proposed (Reference
15.4) is shown in Table 15.1. With each level there is associated an open circuit
voltage and α short circuit current; the two are related by α standard
transient-source impedance, shown in Figure 15.9 (Reference 15.5)
Short circuit current resulting from transient source with (ISC) 15.9 α Figure
open circuit voltage and source impedance. 50ν/50pHz VOC