probes are designed to preclude such occurrences, and laboratory tests
4.21) have shown that the voltage required to spark a typical (Reference
capacitance-type probe is many times greater than that induced in fuel gauge
circuits by lightning. However, other situations involving unenclosed circuits,
such as externally mounted fuel tanks, exist wherein induced voltages may be
much higher than those found in circuits completely enclosed by an airframe.
The accidents mentioned above prompted extensive research into the
lightning effects on and protection of aircraft fuel systems. Tmproved bonding,
lightning-protected filler caps and access doors, active and passive vent flame
suppression devices, flame-retardant foams, and safer (i.e., less flammable) fuels
are examples of developments which have resulted from this research. In
addition, government airworthiness requirements now include lightning protec-
tion for aircraft fuel systems and specify requirements and tests that must be
passed to demonstrate compliance prior to aircraft certification. As a result of
these safety measures, lightning strikes present fewer hazards t o the fuel systems
aboard modern transport aircraft than to those of older aircraft, and properly
certificated aircraft may expect to experience lightning strikes with no adverse
effects on fuel systems. Continued changes in airframe designs and materials,
however, make it mandatory that care and diligence in fuel system lightning
protection not be relaxed in the future.
4.5 Electrical Sys terns
If an externally mounted electrical apparatus, such as a navigation lamp or
antenna, happens to be at a lightning attachment point, protective globes or
fairings may shatter and permit some of the lightning current to enter associated
electrical wiring directly.
In the case of a wing tip navigation light, for example, lightning may
shatter the protective globe and light bulb. This may in turn allow the lightning
arc to contact the bulb filament so that lightning currents may flow into the
electrical wires running from the bulb to the power supply bus. Even if only a
fraction of the total lightning current enters the wires, they may be too small to
or conduct the thousands of amperes involved and thus be melted vaporized.
The accompanying voltage surge may cause breakdown of insulation or damage
to other electrical equipment powered from the same bus. At best, the initial
component affected is disabled, and, at worst, enough other electrical apparatus
is disabled along with it to require evacuation of the crew and loss of the
aircraft. There are many examples of this effect, involving both military and civil
aircraft. Externally mounted hardware most frequently involved includes
navigation lights, antennas, windshield heaters, pitot probe heaters, and, in
earlier days, the trailing long-wire antennas that were deployed in flight for
high-frequency radio communications. The latter were quite susceptible to
lightning strikes, and, since these wires were too thin to conduct the ensuing
currents, they were frequently burned away. The high-frequency radio sets
feeding these antennas were also frequently damaged, and cockpit fires were not
uncommon.