POSITIVE
REGION
- -
++tt+ t 0 0 0 t t + t + + + - - + tttt
0 0 t + +tt t + + f + tGT 0 0 0 +it+
tit+ 0 0
ttt
0 0 0
i-t
++
ttt NEGATIVE ttt
REGION (h) ttt ttt
4 t
Stages the development of leader. in a 1.5 Figure
Left in the wake of these electrons will be positively charged ions (e). If
the electric field is high enough, the initial avalanche will reach a critical size
(f) (approximately electrons) for another avalanche of electrons to be lo8
initiated by photoionization (g) from the initial discharge. The electric field that
accelerates this secondary discharge is the sum of the initial electl-ic field and
that produced by the positive space charge left behind by the initial avalanche.
Under the action of the total field, these successive avalanches reach the positive
space charge (h), neutralize it, and leave a new positive charge a little farther on.
With such a mechanism a positive charge moves step step into the un-ionized by
air leaving behind it a partially ionized filament (i). This filament is a conductor,
though at this stage of its development perhaps only a poor conductor.
The processes just described relate to a positive electric field. In a negative
a electric field similar, though more complicated, phenonienon occurs. The
to initial avalanches seem to develop in the air farther ahead of the leader and
propagate both ways: into virgin air and back toward the more fully developed
leader. The end result is much the same; behind the advancing head of the leader
is an ionized column in this ease with a predominance of negative charge and
having at its center a more heavily conducting filament.
'
If the initial development of the leader takes place in the charged cloud,
the developing streamer branches and begins to collect charge from its
surroundings. Because it collecrs charge in this way, the streamer may be viewed
As as connected to the cloud and the same potential as the cloud. the head of at
the leader moves farther into the un-ionized air, charge flows down from the
charged regions of the cloud, along the partially conducting filament and toward
the head of the leader, thus tending to keep all parts of the leader at very high a
6