bonding straps or wires of this cross-sectional area could, theoretically, be
Δ. utilized to conduct current Components Α and If one of them had worked
loose, however, all of the current would have to flow through the other one. If
the same equations are used this circumstance, the total action integral of in
ξ lo6 would cause α calculated temperature rise of over 200 "C, α 2.25 Α ~ - Σ
temperature that should be considered excessive.
In fact, it is prudent to keep conductor temperature rises below 100 "C in
order to avoid explosion where flammable materials or vapors may exist and also
to avoid mechanical stresses resulting from thermal expansion (See Section
7.2.3). The temperature coefficients of resistivity which are given in Table 7.1
"C remain reasonably constant only through the range of -50 to +I00 "C; thus,
calculations that are based on these coefficients and which produce temperatures
above 100 "C should not be considered accurate.
Consideration of temperature rise effects in conductors carrying lightning
currents is most important where all or α large fraction of the stroke currents
need to be carried in individual conductors. Examples include radome diverter
straps, bonding straps (or conduits or cable shields, ground wires jumpers),
passing through plastic radomes or wing tips, and certain hydraulic or control
lines which may become exposed to lightning-strike currents.
Figure 7.3 presents calculated temperature rises for conductors of the
metals of Table 7.1 as α function of cross-sectional area for action integrals of
Α ~ - σ . ξ lo6 0.25, 2.0, 2.25, and 3 These curves may be used to determine the
expected temperature rise structural elements, diverter bars, bond straps, or in
other conductors expected to carry lightning currents. The temperature rises
determined from Figure 7.3 should be added to the ambient temperature of the
conductor to determine the actual temperature.
- If the reader desires to calculate the temperature rise for action integrals
other than the four of Figure 7.3, he may do so manually by using Equations 7.1
and 7.5, or he may use the computer program written for the Texas Instruments
SR-52 in programmable calculator included Appendix 1. The program requires
the action integral, resistivity, specific heat, density, and cross-sectional area of
the conductor as inputs from which it calculates temperature rise. The program
also calculates the elongation that takes place the metal as α result of the in
temperature rise.
2 Α separate SR-52 program is provided in Appendix for calculation of
temperature rise and elongation in tubes and pipes. This program accepts
dimensions of the outside diameter and wall thickness, thereby saving the user
the need to calculate manually the cross-sectional area of the pipe wall.
If several parallel conductors of the same length and cross-sectional area
are present, the current may be expected to divide equally among them; the
action integral associated with each portion of the current will be
$ρ2 dt (total)
JI' dt (each conductor) = δ
N where is the number of parallel conductors. This distribution would suggest
192