.
K K to express in kW psM, since the value of in these units then becomes
numerically equal to the power necessary for failure, dissipated by α square pulse
16.2 of ps duration. If this point is located on α log-log graph (Figure or Figure 1
16.31, -1/2, then α curve of slope, drawn through this point reconstructs the
curve fit to the data for α particular device, and the power for failure at other
K factor pulse durations can be read directly from such α graph. Ideally, the
should be known for both the forward bias and the reverse bias conditions. Gen-
K erally, only the factor for the reverse bias condition is known. This limitation
K gives conservative answers, since for the reverse bias condition is almost always
K for the forward bias condition. lower than is
The magnitude of the damage constant depends upon the type of junction
larger for large junctions and smaller under consideration: broadly speaking, it is
16.4 16.5 16.5) for small junctions. Figures and (Reference show the range of
the damage constant for typical diodes and transistors.
K Experimental Determination of Factor 16.6.1
K Experimentally the factor is determined by injecting power pulses into
the semiconductor junction, starting at low levels and increasing the levels until
either failure or significant degradation of the junction occurs. Devices would
normally be pulsed in both the forward and reverse directions.
K α factors and breakdown voltages for number of semiconductors are The
K 16.1 16.2 16.6). and (Reference In the case of transistors, the given in Table
factor listed generally refers to the base-emitter junction, since this is generally
K the junction most susceptible to burnout. In all the cases the factor refers to
the reverse bias direction.
K Factor as Determined from Junction Area 16.6.2
K If the factor is not measured, it may be estimated by one or more of
three methods. The most accurate of the indirect methods involves α knowledge
K of the area of the junction. If the area is known, the factor may be estimated
from the following relations:
- K 0.56 Α Diodes =
K 0.47 Transistors Α = -
K in kW psM
For transistors, the junction area to be used is that of the base-emitter region.
This is generally the weaker junction (lower breakdown voltage), and it is that
for which the experimental average value for K(Α) was obtained.
by the availability of information on This method is of course limited
junction area, but where such information is available, the method yields damage