They have high impedance and low capacitance. The low-shunt
capacity and leakage current characteristics of gas-filled spark gaps
minimize insertion problems for operating frequencies below 1 GHz.
They provide bilateral operation, having the same characteristics on
either polarity.
The disadvantages of spark gaps include the following:
They have relatively high sparkover voltage.
Simple gaps do not extinguish follow current. This is a most
important point to consider if they are to be used on a power
circuit. The arc must be extinguished by removing the voltage
(circuit breaker of fuse) or by inserting resistance rapidly into the
circuit by an additional element, such as a silicon carbide or zinc
can be made oxide varistor. Through suitable designing, gaps
100 V. Such self-extinguishing for applied voltages up to about
self-extinguishing properties require the use of the magnetic blow-
out principle.
They may have a large dependence of sparkover voltage on the
waveshape of the voltage. Specifications relating to the impulse ratio
or volt-time effect should be carefully considered.
Since spark gaps reflect more energy than they absorb, external
resistive components may be required to minimize ringing. Discrete
linear or nonlinear resistors are sometimes used to assist in
extinguishing a gap. This component may serve the dual purpose of
limiting current and dissipating power.
Diodes Zener 15.6.2
This category includes all single-junction semiconductor devices such as
rectifiers, in addition to Zener diodes. While other semiconductor devices, such
PNPN as devices and bipolar transistors, may have appIication as surge arrestors,
they will not be covered here because of the limited pertinent data available.
Zener diodes are basically polarized devices which exhibit an avalanche
breakdown when the applied voltage in the reverse bias direction exceeds the
device's specified breakdown, or Zener voltage of the device. Operated in an
opposed series configuration, diodes can be used as effective suppression devices.
Since Zener diodes are designed to operate in the breakdown mode, they usually
can perform more effectively as terminal protection devices than can signal
diodcs. While the energy-handling capabilities of Zener diodes are modest when
compared with those of spark gaps, they are very well adapted for protection of
individual components or circuit boards.
The advantages of Zener diodes include the following:
They are of small size.
They are easily mounted.
They have low "firing" voltage.
They have low dynamic impedance when conducting.