The second set of measurements was made on α circuit running from the
interface control unit and the gun bay to α wing position indicator switch
F-8 located underneath the leading edge of the wing. The wing on the aircraft
could be raised or lowered around α pivot point towards its rear in order to
change the angle of attack during landing and takeoff. The purpose of the
switch was to indicate the position of the wing. The voltages induced on that
switch circuit are shown in Figure 14.1 1. The voltages measured from
line to airframe were higher than those measured from line to line, but it is
significant that the line-line voltages, while of α somewhat different waveshape,
were not much lower than the line-to-ground voltages. The reason for this lay in
the gun bay were the fact that the load impedances in the interface box in
different from each other on the two sides of the circuit. One side connected to
α power supply bus, while the other side probably connected to an emitter
follower. Another significant feature about these voltages was that they were
again of an oscillatory nature. They were apparently excited by the leakage of
magnetic flux inside the aircraft and were not excited by the drop in potential
along the structural resistance of the aircraft.
(SWITCH CLOSED
WING UP)
ONE LINE-TO-AIRFRAME
NO. ps/div. 0.2V/div. NO. ps/div. 364 I 0.2V/div. 361 I
14.11 Voltages induced in wing position indicator switch circuit at open Figure
plug Π22.
Figures 14.1 2 and 14.1 show voltages measured on two different circuits 3
going to actuators, one (Figure 14.12) going to the left pitch actuator and the
other (Figurc 14.13) going to the left roll actuator. In both cases the voltages
displayed were the output of the driver amplifier used to control the servo valve
in the actuator. Both of these were differential measurements, line-line voltage
measurements. The significant feature about these measurements was, again, that
the characteristic response was oscillatory and apparently excited by the leakage
of magnetic flux inside the aircraft. There was some dependence of the voltage