may suffer dielectric breakdown (puncture) and allow the streamer to reach the
approaching leader. This is most likely to occur when there is no external
conducting object nearby from which another streamer could propagate and
reach the leader first. Obviously, if a puncture occurs through an integral fuel
tank wali, fuel is placed in direct contact with the lightning arc, and ignition is
probable.
It is believed possible that, even if a puncture does not occur, an internal
streamer can ignite fuel b y itself. Protection against ignition therefore requires
that two basic criteria be met:
1. Punctures be prevented
2. Internal streamers be prevented.
These criteria are, of course, in addition to other requirements such as
elimination of ignition from strikes to vent outlets, or sparking across joints
discussed elsewhere in this chapter.
Puncture of nonmetallic skins can be prevented, or at least greatly
minimized, by placement of conductive diverters on the outside surface of the
tank. These diverters must be placed close enough to each other or to other
conductors to prevent an internal streamer from puncturing the skin. In
theory this means that the diverters must be close enough together to greatly
reduce the internal electric field and prevent internal streamer formation in the
first place, because such streamers, once formed, will intensify the field about
themselves as they propagate outward. Prevention of internal streamers by
diverters is called electrostatic shielding, and successful accomplishment of this
function is necessary to prevent skin punctures and, equally important, to
prevent internal streamers from forming and becoming a source of ignition
themselves. Types of diverters which have proved successful and criteria for
placement and spacing of them are given in Chapter 7 (Structures Protection).
Tests which may be used to verify diverter adequacy are also described in
7. Chapter
Because streamers form most readily from sharp conducting edges and
corners, the number of metallic parts inside a nonmetallic fuel tank should be
minimized wherever possible, and those that remain should be located as far
from nonmetallic skins as possible and designed with smooth, rounded edges
6.28 instead of sharp points. These concepts are illustrated in Figures and 6.29.
Also metallic parts should be located as far from nonmetallic skins as possible.
If a diverter protection system such as that shown in Figure 6.28 is used,
the diverter should not be painted or covered with any other nonconducting
material. The electrical insulation provided by most aircraft paints is nearly as
good as that provided the fiberglass skin itself, so the paint will mask the by
diverter and greatly reduce its effectiveness. Painting of the fiberglass skin itself,
of course, is to be encouraged, as the added insulation provided by the ~ aint will
further reduce the probability of skin puncture.
6.53) has successfully tested a diverter arrangement of Plumer (Reference
Figure 6.27, and similar arrangements have been the configuration shown in
flown on some light aircraft with nonmetallic wing tip tanks.