but may be high for most electronic equipment, particularly for equipment
located in shielded locations. The waveshape, while not unreasonable, is
sometimes difficult to inject into circuits by transformer coupling. This test does
not treat in any way the short circuit current that would flow on a shorted
conductor connected to a low-impedance load or flow upon the shield of a
6 ps cable. The specification that the envelope decay to 50% in no less than
implies a lower loss test circuit than may be found in practice. The
recommended test generator circuit is somewhat uncontrolled, using an
untriggered spark gap firing virtually at random at the crest of an ac charging
voltage, though the waveform itself does not imply any particular generator test
R circuit. The specification does call for a 150 source impedance. The question
of source impedance deserves serious consideration and 150 may not be the 52
optimum value.
This test (and waveform) is one of the few that have been formally
approved by an industry standardizing group.
Martzloff and Howell (Reference 17.19) proposed a test wave with a
0 8 to kV. The wave was intended frequency of 100 kHz and a voltage range of
V for the duplication of transients found in residential circuits on 120 ac lines.
The damping was specified such that the ratio of successive half-cycles should be
greater than 0.6. This also may be somewhat high, particularly if the transient is
to be coupled into equipment through transformers. No specification was made
about the magnitude or waveshape of the short circuit current. Martzloff and
Howell show a test circuit capable of injecting the transient onto 120 V ac lines
R where, since the output impedance of the circuit is basically 150 resistive, the
shape of the short circuit current would be about the same as that of the open
circuit voltage.
This waveform and this test circuit have been widely accepted in some
fields. One example is their use in relation to ground fault interrupters
(Reference 17.20).
In answer to response from readers and users of the original Fisher and
Martzloff paper (Reference 17.21) on the transient control level philosophy,
Crouch, Fisher, and Martzloff have proposed test wave somewhat different a
from the original one (Reference 17.22). The revised voltage wave, shown in
Figure 17.8, emphasizes the oscillatory nature of the wave, rather than
deemphasizing it, as did the original test wave. The front time was raised to 0.5
ps, the course of the wave after crest being defined in terms of its oscillatory
frequency of 100 kHz and the decrement specified by requiring that the ratio of
successive half-cycles be greater than 0.6. The voltage wave thus becomes nearly
identical with that proposed by Martzloff and Howell.
The proposed waveshape should be viewed in relationship to its com-
panion short circuit current. The current, similar to that from natural transient
sources, is essentially the integral of the voltage.
17.5.2 for of Equipnlent Direct Injection Transients
Surge generators capable of producing the types of transients described
51 1