The developers d o report (Reference 7.17) that the segmented strips
C remain undamaged after passage of a 170 kA stroke and 200 continuing
currents. This capability has been confirmed bv the authors, who have found the
strips capable of sustaining two strokes of 180 kA and 2 lo6 (Component x A ~ - S
A) before destroying their ability to ionize another time. The authors have also
found the segmented strips to be capable of sustaining a much larger number of
the more common 50 kA strokes. Other investigators, including Conti and Cary
200 (Reference 7.1 8), have reported the strips to be severely damaged after one
kA discharge or one "high coulomb" continuing current discharge has been
delivered, a finding that has aroused controversy over the effectiveness of the
delivered by Conti and Cary, strips. The continuing current charge (500 C )
however, is more charge than that conveyed by any natural lightning discharge
yet measured.
The segmented strip design might be modified to lower the ionization
voltage or to improve durability; however, the basic principle is sound, and there
are many applications where the presently available strips will afford lightning
protection improved over other methods, while not interfering with radar
performance. The present lack of strip performance data simply means that the
proper location of the strips can not yet be determined analytically but, instead,
must be accomplished with the aid of laboratory tests of candidate arrangements
on the particular structure being protected.
The selection of protective devices and the arrangement of them on a
fiberglass structure comprise a major part of the protection task. The best design
can be completely undone, however, if other, seemingly innocuous, features of
the structure are left unchanged. Figure 7.32 illustrates some particularly
troublesome situations. They usually arise when practices perfectly acceptable in
metallic structures are continued without modification in nonmetallic structures.
The several ways of providing protection for the fiberglass wing tip of
Figure 7.30 should include the following:
Remove paint from the diverters
Electrically bond the lamp housing directly to the diverters
Enclose the lamp power wires in a conduit or braided shield inboard
to the metal rib
Electrically bond the diverters to metallic structure.
7.3.2 Advanced Composites
Advanced composites, consisting of boron- or graphite-reinforced plastics,
are being used increasingly often as replacements for aluminum load-bearing
applications in aircraft. The high strength-to-weight characteristics of these
materials make them attractive for structural applications, but because they are
nonmetallic, they are inherently more vulnerable to lightning effects.
of In contrast to aluminum, which by virtue its electrical and thermal
conductivity suffers few direct effects of lightning and which provides excellent
electromagnetic shielding, the advanced composites are neither good conductors,
228