8 CHAPTER
BY VOLTAGES AND CURRENTS INDUCED LIGHTNING
Definition and Elementary Considerations 8.1
effects The term of lightning refers to the damage to or indirect
malfunction of electrical equipment that results from lightning flashes. These
effects may range from tripped circuit breakers to computer upset, to physical
damage to input or output circuits of electronic equipment. There may be other
indirect effects of lightning flashes that pertain to aircraft safety, such as flash
blindness of the crew or acoustic shock waves. These effects, however, are not
treated in this chapter. Included in this definition and discussed here are the
voltages and currents induced by lightning on the electrical wiring of the aircraft,
regardless of whether or not such voltages and currents cause damage or upset of
electrical equipment.
The demarkation line between direct and indirect effects may be
somewhat arbitrary in some instances. An example might involve a lightning
flash terminating on a wing tip navigation light. In this case, the burning or
blasting damage to the light fixture would be considered a direct effect of the
If the lightning flash were to contact the filament of the bulb and lightning.
inject current into the wiring, there would be produced electrical effects ranging
from overvoltage breakdown of the insulation at the socket to tripping of
remote circuit breakers or upset of equipment, effects of the resulting surge
voltages on the power system. All of these effects will be considered indirect
effects in this discussion, even though the initiating event was the direct
injection of current into the filament. Another hypothetical possibility would
involve a lightning flash that passed close to but did not contact the aircraft. The
changing electromagnetic field produced by that flash might upset electronic
equipment. The circuit upsets produced by such a flash would clearly be of an
indirect nature, since there was no direct involvement of the aircraft with the
lightning flash. Usually, however, the indirect effects of concern are produced by
flash that contacts the aircraft. a
In this section as a whole we shall attempt to explain some of the electrical
phenomena involved and to discuss some of the analytical techniques through
which indirect effects may be analyzed, some of the measurements that have
been made on aircraft to determine the nature of the indirect effects, and some
of the measures one may take to control the indirect effects of lightning.
The arts of analysis and control of indirect effects are embryonic at
present. Accordingly, the analytical procedures to be described are not as well
developed as might be desired. Neither can very many examples of successful
protective measures be given, since protective measures against indirect effects
are as yet seldom included in aircraft design.
The problem of analysis of indirect effects is a complex one, but,
fortunately, analysis can be divided into several stages. These stages are
8.1. illustrated in Figure The overall task is to determine how the lightning
leads to voltages and currents on the internal wiring. The individual current, IL,