use of these materials has been limited to outer wing tips or radomes, for
example; therefore, in these cases additional conductive paths need only be
added across or through the nonmetallic section. However, an aircraft made
entirely of fiberglass has been fabricated. In this case positive steps must be
taken to provide the necessary conducting path(σ) for lightning currents to flow
through the entire aircraft.
The 5.3 as Lightning Environment Related to Attachment Zones
For guidance in the lightning protection design and qualification testing of
aerospace vehicles and hardware, the Society of Automotive Engineers Com-
AE4, Special Task F, has formulated an idealized representation of the mittee
current components of α severe lightning flash. This representation incorporates
the important aspects of both positive and negative flashes. Four current
Β, Δ, C, and represent the four current characteristics found in components, Α,
5.5 5.6). (Reference most lightning flashes. These are shown together on Figure
This model represents α very severe flash wherein intensities are exceeded less
It may be used to define the environment that aircraft than 1% of the time.
systems and components must withstand or against which they must be
protected. At the present time, this model is not included in any government
specification or standard dealing with lightning protection; however, the model
is expected to be incorporated into forthcoming revisions of most of these
5.5 requirements. The lightning environment described in Figure is equal in
. severity to the lightning currents which are described in present specifications, or
greater than such currents. The model is also in general agreement with new
β
Component Α (Initial Stroke)
- φ XIO kA 10% Peak amplitude
- - φ 2 ξ 10%' 20% Action Integral seconds < -
500 Time duration us. -
Β Component (Intermediate current) - Δ Component (restrike) PI Maximum Charge Transfer 10 Coulom -6 :: - γ φ 2 Average amplitude kA 10%
3 κ - = Action integral 0.25 ξ 3-, Component C (Continuing
= - Τ Current) Charge ransfer 10' Α' seconds χ
200 Coulombs
φ = 20% Amplitude
+
τ
Time
I ~ Ξ ~ O - ~ Σ Μ 0.25 seclT<λ sec
Current test waveform components for evaluation of direct effects. 5.5 Figure
lightning protection requirements being formulated in the United Kingdom and
5.7). Europe (Reference
In order to design protection for α particular system or piece of hardware,
its susceptibility to the various lightning current characteristics must be known.