an overall shield grounded at both ends to enclose a bundle of individually
shielded wires whose shields are left ungrounded at one end for purposes. A EM1
relative comparison of six possible wiring methods is shown in Figure It is 6.42.
recommended that methods a and b of this figure be used, and that c and d not
be used only if the (leading or trailing edge) enclosure has an electrically
conductive skin or coating that can provide some electromagnetic shielding
against the outside world. Methods e and f are preferable because they will
provide the lowest induced voltages at the probe. Method f is to be used if the
EM1 individual shields must be left ungrounded at one end for control purposes.
The comparisons shown in Figure apply also for wiring to fuel tanks in 6.42
other parts of the aircraft.
For whatever method is used, assurance should be obtained that the
expected induced voltages are lower by a factor of 10 to than the probe 1
sparkover voltage at altitude. An estimate of the induced voltages to be expected
in the fuel tank wiring can be obtained by analysis as described in Chapter or 12
by lightning transient analysis tests, as described in Chapter 17.
6.9 Fuel System Checklist
considerable amount of information on various aspects of fuel systems A
has been presented in the preceding paragraphs. With reference to these
paragraphs, the following checklist is provided to summarize key points and to
focus the designer's attention on the important aspects of fuel system lightning
protection:
2, Are the fuel tanks located in Zones and where lightning strokes 1 1.
5, Sections and may directly contact their skins? (Chapter 5.2 5.3)
If so,
a. What is the expected arc dwell time on these skins? (Section
6.6)
Are the skins thick enough to avoid meltthrough? (Section b.
6.6)
c. Can a lightning arc attach directly to an access door or filler
cap?; if so, can the lightning current be conducted into the
surrounding skin without sparking inside the tank? (Section
6.8)
Are there "dry bay" areas into which fuel may leak from adjoining 2.
tanks or plumbing? If so, these are also subject to questions la, lb,
and c. 1
Are fuel vent outlets or jettison pipes located in direct strike zones 3.
A (Zones or or swept-stroke zones (Zones or where the B) 2A 2B) 1 1
5, arc may attach or sweep close to the vent outlet? (Chapter
5.3; Sections and Sections and 5.2 6.4 6.5)
a. If so, is an effective flame arrester or surge tank protection
(STP) system used?; has its effectiveness been verified by test?
(Section 6.4)