14 CHAPTER
EXAMPLES OF VOLTAGES INDUCED
MEASURED ON AIRCRAFT
14.1 Introduction
There have been several sets of tests made on aircraft in which simulated
lightning currents were injected into the aircraft and the resultant voltages and
currents on the aircraft wiring measured. Space precludes giving in this report a
con~prehensive summary of the test results, and the user is referred to the
reports on the individual tests. A few examples of the measurements will be
@en in the following sections, and an atternpt will be made to indicate the most
important facts learned during the tests.
F-89J 14.2 Wing from Aircraft
in The first set of tests to be d~scussed (Reference 14.1) was one which
F-89J aircraft. high lightning-like currents were injected into one wing of an
During the test, represented in Figure 14.1, the wing was fastened onto a
screened instrument enclosure, which may be viewed as representing the fuselage
A 000 40 were injected into the of the aircraft. Lightning-like currents of up to
wing or into the external wing tip tank from a high-current surge generator,
allowed to flow along the wing to the outer wall of the screened instrument
enclosure, and then to ground. An example of one of the types of current
injected Into the wing is shown in Figure 14.l(b). In order to obtain maximum
a mode that essentially allowed the current, the surge generator was operated in
typical production of only one cycle of a damped oscillatory current, unlike a
lightning current, which would rise to crest rather fast and decay at a much
slower rate. The shape of the current wave must be considered when observing
In the waveshape of some of the voltages that will be discussed. particular, note
20 that at about ps there appears a major discontinuity in waveshape. This
discontinuity in current waveshape is reflected in the induced voltages.
Within the wing there were a number ofelectrical circuits, such as those to
navigation lights, fuel gauges, pumps, relays, and switches indicating position of
flaps. Some of these ran in the leading edge of the wing and were well shielded
from many electromagnetic effects, while others ran along the trailing edge
flaps. between the main body of the wing and the wing These latter were most
All of the circuits were relatively exposed to the electromagnetic fields.
independent of each other; they were not, as a general rule, bundled together in
one large cable bundle, a practice that provides maximum coupling from one
circuit to another and makes analysis difficult.
The first circuit that will be discussed, shown in Figure 14.2, was a circuit
supplying power to a position light mounted on the external fuel tank. An
electrical diagram of the circuit, shown in Figure 14.2(b), shows that the circuit
consisted of one wire supplying power to the filament of the position light with
the return circuit for the light being through the wingstructure. Accordingly, if