2.2.2 Can an Aircraft Trigger a Lightning Strike?
A question often asked is If an aircraft cannot produce its own lightning
flash, can it trigger a natural one'? Stated another way the question might be
Would the lightning flash have occurred if the aircraft were not present?
While there is insufficient scientific data upon which to base a conclusive
answer to these questions, the following factors suggest that the aircraft does not
often trigger a flash.
Aircraft often fly through electrified regions without being struck, I .
while lightning flashes are occurring nearby.
The stepped-leader must begin from a charge source capable of 2.
furnishing it with several coulonibs of charge. Thus, the potential
(voltage) of this center, and the surrounding field intensity, would
seem to be much greater than that about an aircraft, leaving the
implication that, unless the aircraft is very close to the charge center,
it can have little influence on the surrounding field or on the process
of leader initiation.
Laboratory breakdown tests of long high-voltage air gaps, thought to 3 .
be similar to lightning leader formation, show that initial ionization
always begins at one of the electrodes and not from an object
suspended in the gap (Reference 2.10). Such an object significantly
influences the voltage level at which breakdown begins only if it is
close enough to one electrode to influence the field about this
electrode.
It is more probable that the aircraft does not become involved until after
leader propagation has begun. If the leader happens to approach the aircraft, the
field intensification produced by the presence of the aircraft becomes much
more significant, and the leader may now be attracted to the aircraft.
There is some evidence (Reference 1) that jumbo jet (wide-body) 2.1
aircraft d o trigger their own flashes, but this is not yet conclusive, since
accumuIated flight hours are not yet nearly as great as those for conventional
aircraft. If large-body aircraft are in fact triggering flashes, it is probably because
their larger sizes make a more noticeable perturbation on the electric field near
the cloud charge centers from which leaders begin.
The aircraft motion has little influence on the propagating leader because
mls, than the leader, which is the aircraft is moving much slower, about lo2
o5 oh
to mls. Thus, the aircraft appears stationary to the leader advancing at 1 1
during the leader formation process.
Several other stimuli have been mentioned as possible causes of aircraft
lightning strikes. These include engine exhaust and radiated electromagnetic
energy (i.e., radar transmission).
Effect 2.2.2.1 of Jet Engine Exhaust
There has been speculation that the hot jet-engine exhaust gases may
contain a sufficient number of ionized particles to attract or trigger a lightning