While conductors external to a current-carrying cylinder, such as an
aircraft fuselage, are not common, they are not unknown. An example might be
the cables on a missile or rocket that run between a control assembly in the nose
and the engine controls at the tail. Of necessity, such cables must run, as shown
to the fuel and oxidizer tanks. If the cables are not in a in Figure 10.3, external
shielded cable tunnel, they will be exposed to the external magnetic field.
If the spacing between the wires and the surfaces of the vehicle is not
large, Equation 10.5 may be somewhat simplified, since the magnetic flux
density does not vary greatly with distance away from the surface of the vehicle
and may be considered uniform.
The Internal Loop Voltages 10.1.3
Let us now consider the conditions internal to the cylinder, where
conditions are very different. First of all, the magnetic field internal to the inner
Let surface of the cylinder will be zero. This may be shown as in Figure 10.4.
two there be passed planes parallel to the axis through any internal point, the P,
planes separated by a small angle, The magnitudes of the currents in the two a.
filaments are to each other as the ratio of the distances from point P.
P Furthermore, the magnetic intensity effects of the filaments at have the ratio
unity
These two filaments then create no field at any internal point; nor does the tube
as a whole, as it is composed of filament pairs.
The second important factor is that the phenomenon of skin effect delays
the buildup of current on the inner surface of the cylinder. The origin of the
skin effect phenomenon is shown in Figure If a magnetic field line is 10.5.
assumed to be suddenly established internal to the wall of the conducting
cylinder, there will be induced eddy currents circulating around that field line.
These eddy currents will induce a magnetic field of their own of polarity
opposite to that set up by the external magnetic field. Only as the eddy currents
decay will the magnetic field penetrate the wall of the cylinder.
is The current density across the wall thickness at several times shown in
Figure 10.5(b). Initially, the current density for a step-function input current is
the current entirely confined to the outer surface. At a slightly later time, t 1,
296