The aircraft, nevertheless, was able to land at a nearby airport. Subsequent
inspection showed extensive damage to the right and left wing tips and to their
electrical wiring. The attachment points and direct effects are pictured in Figure
4.16 (A-F) (Reference 4.22) and are represented by a diagram in Figure 4.17.
The evidence suggests that the flash included two or more strokes separated by a
few milliseconds of continuing current. Assuming, for purposes of explanation,
that the original lightning flash approached the right wing tip, the probable
sequence of events was as follows: the initial point of attachment was the right
[A]). Current from this stroke wing tip navigation light housing (Figure 4.16
entered the housing ground wire and exploded both sections of it on the way to
the right outboard metallic rib, as evidenced by the absence of these wires and
the blackened interior shown in Figure 4.16(B). Current continued through the
airframe to the left outboard rib and out the sender unit ground wire to the
sender unit, the base of which is shown in Figure 4.16(C). From there, the
current followed the filler cap ground braid and exited the aircraft at the filler
cap (Figure 4.16[D]). The current exploded the sender unit ground wire but not
the heavier filler cap ground braid, which was only frayed. Sparksundoubtedly
occurred inside the fuel tank along the ground braid and between the filer cap
and its receptacle, but the fuel-air mixture in the ullage of these half-full tanks
was probably too rich to support ignition.
at the right navigation light housing also Blast forces from stroke No. 1
shattered the lamp globe and bulb, as shown in Figure 4.16(A). This shattering
allowed a portion of the first stroke current to enter the right navigation light
power wire, exploding it between the lamp and the outer rib, where the current
jumped to the rib and continued through the rest of the airframe to the left
sender unit ground wire.
Lightning current flowing in the navigation lamp power wire elevated its
voltage to several thousand volts with respect to the airframe, a voltage high
enough to break down the insulation at the outer rib feed-through point, as
shown in Figure 4.17. Until breakdown occurred here (a few microseconds after
the first stroke began), the wire was at sufficiently high voltage to break down
the insulation to the neighboring sender wire. This breakdown occurred all along
the wire inside the right wing. The portion of current arcing into the sender wire
caused a large voltage to build up across the right wing tip tank fuel gauge
magnet inductance, to which this wire connects. This voltage in turn sparked
over the gap between the gauge terminal and the nearest grounded housing wall,
the arcing badly damaging the gauge unit. While the left navigation light power
wire was also exploded, it is probable that this did not occur until the second
stroke.
Since the aircraft was moving forward, the entry and exit points of the
second stroke were farther aft on both wing tips than the points of the first
stroke. Since no other metallic components were present aft of the first stroke
a entry point on the right wing tip, the second stroke punctured hole in the
fiberglass trailing edge and contacted the metallic outboard rib, as shown in
Figure 4.16(E). As shown in Figure 4.17, current from this stroke proceeded