eliminating possible sources of ignition, regardless of the expected flammability
conditions in the tank.
If any doubt about the protection capability of the particular design
exists, the cap should be tested as described in the SAE report Lightning Test
(Reference Waveforms and Techniques for Aerospace Vehicles and Hardware.
6.57).
6.8.1.2 Ligh tning-Pro tec ted Access Doors
Newman also reported sparking at access door interfaces when the mating
surfaces had O-ring seals or phenolic or anodized clamp ring surfaces which were
electrically insulating. It was found (Reference 6.29) that the application of a
modification (SB-1955) successfully prevented this Boeing Service Bulletin
sparking when the access doors were directly struck. The modification consisted
of the following:
Removing phenolic and anodized coatings from the clamp ring (1)
Removing anodized coating from faying surfaces of the access door (2)
Sealing of the door to the surrounding skin adapter with conductive (3)
grease consisting of 35% by weight of aluminum powder and 65% by
weight of Aeroshell 14 grease.
Other modifications in access door seal design have proved equally
effective in preventing sparking. In some cases anodized clamp rings or insulating
gaskets have been acceptable when sufficient metal-to-metal conductivity exists
via the bolts or fasteners alone. The door requiring the SB-1955 modification
described above to resist sparking had only 23 bolts, whereas other doors having
over 40 bolts have been found to resist sparking even if insulating finishes or
or paints such as anodize zinc chromate remain on the mating surfaces.
A recent survey of different manufacturers' access door designs showed a
wide range of different materials and sealing practices in use and relatively little
If documented lightning test data upon which to judge their adequacy. access
1 doors are located in Zones or 2, where direct or swept strokes may attach
directly to them, they should be tested with direct strokes in accordance with
the SAE report for Lightning Test Waveforms and Techniques Aerospace
(See Reference 6.57). Even if these doors are not located Vehicles and Hardware
in direct or swept-stroke zones, they are likely to be involved in conducting
some lightning current, since this current passes along the aircraft surface
between other attachment points. This report also describes appropriate tests to
be performed (for Zone 3) to evaluate this possibility.
The importance of adequate electrical conductivity between access doors
and their surroundings can not be overemphasized, especially in cases where the
access door is itself a large part of the aircraft skin and where this skin encloses
fuel. Such a case is illustrated in the small fighter aircraft of Figure 6.33, in
which several large access doors cover a fuselage fuel tank. The doors cover a
large area and are located in Zone 2A, a zone that requires them to be designed
A ~ - s . to safely accept strokes up to 100 kA, 0.25 x lo6
163