CHAPTER 15
TO MINIMIZE INDIRECT EFFECTS DESIGN
15.1 Some Premises and Goals for Design
Any design program aimed at minimizing or eliminating the indirect
effects of lightning needs to be founded on certain premises of which the
following might be examples. The first premise is that it is desirable to achieve a
design that prevents the indirect effects from causing irreversible physical
damage. The second premise is that it is essential to eliminate that interference
which provides an imminent hazard to the safety of the vehicle or its crew or
one that presents a severe risk of preventing the completion of the aircraft's
mission. (It is, of course, desirable to minimize all interference.) For example,
indirect effects that cause warning lights to appear might be acceptable whereas
indirect effects that lead to the tripping of circuit breakers would be
unacceptable, even if it were possible to reset the circuit breakers. Immediately
after a lightning flash the pilot of the aircraft might have enough things to do
that he should not be called upon to reset circuit breakers. Further, interference
that leads to the scrambling of one channel of a redundant digital control system
is probably acceptable, but interference that causes computers to shut down is
unacceptable, particularly if the computers are shut down in a disorderly manner
A which results in the internally stored programs becoming scrambled. third
premise is that it is more productive to design electronic equipment that can
accept transient signals on input and output leads than it is to initiate a retrofit
A fourth premise is that it program to provide protection to an existing system.
is more practical to design an electronic system around the capabilities of
existing and proven protective devices or techniques than it is to develop and
retrofit new and improved protective techniques to an electronic system
designed without consideration of the transients that might be produced by
A fifth premise is that trade-offs must be made between the cost of lightning.
providing electronic equipment capable of withstanding lightning-induced
transients and the cost of shielding equipment and interconnecting wiring from
A the electromagnetic effects of lightning. sixth premise is that designers should
take as much advantage as possible of the inherent shielding that aircraft
structures are capable of supplying and should avoid placing equipment and
wiring in locations that are most exposed to the electromagnetic fields produced
by lightning.
15.2 Improvement Through Location of Electronic Equipment
While it is recognized that the designer may not have much choice in the
matter, it is often possible to make improvements in the resistance to indirect
effects by locating electronic equipment in regions where the electronlagnetic
fields produced by lightning current are lowest and by avoiding the placement of
equipment in the region where the electromagnetic fields are highest. For
example, since the most important type of coupling from the outside