these events result from disruption of the inlet air by the shock wave associated
with the lightning arc channel sweeping aft along a fuselage. This channel may
indeed pass close in front of an engine intake, and if a restrike occurs, the
accompanying shock wave is considered sufficient to disrupt engine operation.
The steep temperature gradient may also be important. These effects have been
reported as occurring more often on smaller military or business jet aircraft than
on larger transport aircraft. Thus, smaller engines are probably more susceptible
to disrupted inlet air than are their larger counterparts.
In some cases a complete flameout of the engine results, while in others
there is only a stall or roll-back. There is no case on record, however, in which a
successful restart or recovery of the engine to full power was not made while still
in flight. Perhaps because of this, together with the impracticality of a
laboratory simulation, there has been little research into the problem.
Nevertheless, operators of aircraft with engines or inlets close to the fuselage
should anticipate possible loss of power in the event of a lightning strike and be
prepared to take quick corrective action.
There are no reports of lightning effects on wing-mounted turbojet
engines, since lightning strikes do not often occur near the inlets of these
engines, and there are no reports of power loss of turboprop engines as a result
of lightning strikes.
Effects Indirect 4.7
Even if the lightning flash does not directly contact the aircraft's electrical
wiring, strikes to the airframe are capable of causing voltage and current surges
in this wiring which may be damaging to aircraft electronics.
The mechanism whereby lightning currents induce voltages in aircraft
4.20. electrical circuits is illustrated in Figure As lightning current flows through
an aircraft, strong magnetic fields which surround the conducting aircraft and
change rapidly in accordance with the fast-changing lightning-stroke currents are
produced. Some of this magnetic flux may leak inside the aircraft through
apertures such as windows, radomes, canopies, seams, and joints. Other fields
may arise inside the aircraft when lightning current diffuses to the inside surfaces
of skins. In either case these internal fields pass through aircraft electrical
circuits and induce voltages in them proportional to the rate of change of the
magnetic field. These magnetically induced voltages may appear between both
wires of a two-wire circuit, or between either wire and the airframe. The former
are often referred to as and the latter as line-to-line col€ages common-mode
voltages
In addition to these induced voltages, there may be resistive voltage drops
along the airframe as lightning current flows through it. If any part of an aircraft
circuit is connected anywhere to the airframe, these voltage drops may appear
4.20. between circuit wires and the airframe, as shown in Figure For metallic
aircraft made of highly conductive aluminum, these voltages are seldom
significant except when the lightning current must flow through resistive joints