5 CHAPTER
DIRECT EFFECTS PROTECTION
Successful protection of an aircraft against the direct effects of lightning
depends upon protection of each of its various systems or coniponents that may
be susceptible either to direct lightning attachment or to current flow between
lightning attachment (entry and exit) points. Components located in different
sections of the aircraft are likely to experience different degrees of susceptibility
the to lightning, and they may be vulnerable to different components of
lightning flash. In this chapter we present the basic steps which should be
followed in eslablishing lightning protection by discussing the varieties of
lightning susceptibility and the designing of suitable protective measures against
arc entry and current flow-through damage. We explain how the lightning-strike
zones and lightning current environments are established, since environmental
conditions in the zones are those under which specific protective measures must
perform. We then call attention to those airworthiness regulations which apply
to lightning protection. In subsequent chapters we present specific protection
techniques for aircraft fuel and structural systems exposed to the direct effects
of lightning strikes.
5.2 Basic Steps in Protectio~i Design
5.2.1 Establishment the Ligh tnilig Susceptibility of
Design of successfill protection usually involves taking the following basic
I , lightning strikes co~nmonly attach to an aircraft steps. As described in Chapter
nose, wing tips, vertical fin tip, horizontal stabilizer tips, and to other
appendages, such as propellers, pitot booms, antennas, or pylon-mounted
external stores. These are the places where the hot lightning arc attaches directly
to the aircraft and thus the places of initial concern as far as direct effects are
the aircraft skin and concerned. However, lightning currents must flow through
structural members between these arc entry and exit points, and it is possible for
these currents to damage components along the way if safe conduction paths are
not provided. Thus, the lightning protection designer's job is not completed
when he has adequately treated only the attachment points. Instead, he must
also look throughout the aircraft at other components that might be vulnerable
in one way or another to direct effects from current flow through the aircraft.
The susceptibility (degree of exposure to lightning effects) of components
on their location on or within the aircraft. Thus it is helpful to depends greatly
2 to establish the lightning utilize the lightning-strike zone definitions of Chapter
environment which each particular component experiences. Once this has been
established, the vulnerability (if any) of the component to its own environment