PREFACE
This book is an attempt to present under one cover the current state of
knowledge concerning the potential lightning on aircraft and the means effects
that are available to designers and operators to against these effects. The protect
impetus for writing this book springs from two sources--the increased use of
nonmetallic materials in the structure of aircraft and the constant trend toward
using electronic equipment to handle flight-critical control and navigation
functions. Nonmetallic structures are inherently more likely to be damaged by a
lightning strike than are metallic structures. Nonmetallic structures also provide
less shielding against the intense electromagnetic fields of lightning than d o
metallic structures. These fields have demonstrated an ability to damage or cause
upset of electronic equipment.
Such concerns, when added to the continuing apprehension regarding
the vulnerability of fuel systems to lightning, have led in the past decade to
increased research into lightning effects on aircraft. The results of this research
are contained in the technical reports and literature published by ourselves and
by researchers in other laboratories who are also working on these problems.
Conferences and symposiums have been held so that researchers could exchange
ideas and information; there is a high degree of cooperation among all of those
working towards the goal of complete safety-of-flight in the lightning environ-
men t.
information on aircraft protection from The persons who can best use
lightning are the aircraft designers and operators, but generally they are not
among those who produced this information. Moreover, they are often unaware
of its existence, and they seldom have the background to distill from it the
important facts that can and should be applied to achieve safer designs. The
purpose of this book is to present the most important parts of this body of
knowledge in a manner most useful to the designer and the operator.
This book is organized into seventeen chapters. In the first of these we
review what lightning is and how it originates. The second chapter describes how
the aircraft becomes involved with the lightning Slash and why it is that aircraft
do not produce their own lightning flashes, but may, we think, sometimes trigger
natural ones. Chapter considers how often and under what conditions aircraft 3
have been struck, reviews avoidance procedures now in use by operators, and
reviews their degree of success. We also take up the question of whether or not
strikes could be totally avoided. The fourth chapter summarizes the various
effects which have occurred when lightning has struck aircraft, giving the
operator an idea of the direct and indirect effects which he may expect when his
." aircraft is "zapped
Since our main purpose is to help the designer protect against those effects
that may be hazardous, the remainder of the book is devoted to this purpose.
5, Chapters and deal with protection against the direct physical damage 7 6 ,
effects. Chapter sets forth three philosopl~ical steps which guide us in the 5
design work that follows. Attention is also called to government standards or