ratio below a definite minimum value produces a vapor and air mixture that is
too lean in fuel to burn. Likewise, there is a maximum fuellair ratio which, when
exceeded, results in a vapor space mixture too rich in fuel to be flammable. In
between these extremes there is a range of mixtures that will burn. When only
equilibrium conditions are considered, the particular fuellair ratio that can exist
is determined by the temperature and altitude of the fuel system. The
temperature determines the quantity of the fuel by controlling its vapor
pressure, and the altitude determines the quantity of air. Therefore, by a suitable
combination of temperature and altitude, under equilibrium conditions, the
ullage of a fuel tank can be made either flammable or nonflammable b y varying
combinations of temperature.and altitude.
Much research into the fuel vapor and flammability characteristics that
exist within aircraft fuel systems has been accomplished by many organizations
concerned with aircraft propulsion and the resulting need to safely transport
large quantities of fuel aloft in a vehicle with severe space and weight limitations.
This research has included laboratory investigations of the flammability
characteristics of the fuel vapors that exist within laboratory-type containers as
well as those that exist during flight. Perhaps the most comprehensive laboratory
work is that of Nestor (Reference 6.1), who has paid particular attention to the
behavior of fuels in aircraft tanks and flight environments. Nestor shows that, as
a result of the wide variety of temperatures, pressures, and motions that can
exist in flight, there are correspondingly wide variations in the amount of fuel
that can exist in the vaporized state. One reason for this variation is that, in
addition to fuel already present as a vapor, the aircraft motion and vibration also
cause the liquid to be dispersed in the vapor space in the form of mists and
spray. An ignition source may preheat these droplets of fuel to a point where
sufficient vapors are evolved to support a flame, even if insufficient vapor has
been released from the bulk fuel surface itself. The heat from the developing
flame then causes more fuel to vaporize and continue to feed and enlarge the
flame. Temperature and altitude, however, are the primary characteristics that
relate to flammability.
The relationship of temperature and altitude to tank vapor flammability is
illustrated by the envelope. A typical flammability envelope is flammability
6.1 6.2). (Reference shown in Figure
Turbine engine fuels are placed in two broad categories based on their
distillation temperature ranges: wide-cut turbine engine fuels and aviation
100 kerosenes. Aircraft with reciprocating engines are commonly fueled with
octane gasoline. Turbine- Cjet-) powered aircraft fueled in the United States and
A in some foreign countries utilize aviation kerosenes. These include Jet and Jet
A-1 fuels. U.S. military aircraft and commercial transports in some other foreign
B or JP-4, which are countries are fueled with wide-cut fuels, such as Jet
The kerosene-type fuels with a higher percentage of volatile components.
flammability limits for the turbine fuels as determined in the laboratory by
6.3). 6.2 Nestor are presented in Figure (Reference
The flammability envelopes are defined as lines beyond which no
6.2 these lines flammable points were observed in the laboratory tests. In Figure