active electrodes and the airframe because the highest induced voltages usually
appear between all of the incoming wires and the airframe. The reason is
6.41. The wires are most closely referenced to the airframe illustrated in Figure
at the electronics end, which is usually in the fuselage. If one or more of the
wires are shielded, usually only the electronics ends of the shields are grounded
to the airframe because grounding of both ends permits stray ac fields to induce
circulating currents in these shields. These currents are α source of steady state
electromagnetic interference (EMI) sufficient to interfere with the operation of
the fuel quantity electronics. This EM1 has been avoided by leaving the shields
at the fuel tank end. ungrounded
I
. /am
SHIELDED
-
SHIELDS
GROUNDED
ONLY AT
ELECTRONICS 1-27 :I / / INDUCED
END VOLTAGES
ARE
FJENVEEN μ χ * sAcITAN PROBE χ E - npE
SHIELDS
AND
AIRFRAME WING
FUEL
TANK
Typical fuel probe wiring. 6.41 Figure
Most magnetic flux and induced voitaie appears between either
wire (or shield) and the airframe at probe end.
Less flux and induced voltage exists between any two wires.
Even less flux and voltage exists between α wire and its shield.
The performance of shielded circuits within magnetic fields is discussed in
13.2, where it is shown that α shield grounded at only one Chapter 13, Section
end actually provides no magnetic shielding of an enclosed wire whose return
path (the airframe) is outside of the shield. If α shieId is grounded at only one
end, the magnetic flux encircled in the loop this shield forms with the airframe
will induce α voltage in this loop of
4 flux = magnetic where
Most of this induced voltage will appear between the open end of the shield and
the airframe. The same field will induce α similar voltage between the enclosed
wire and the airframe. Only if the shield is grounded to the airframe at both ends
will it prevent these voltages from being induced. If the ungrounded end of the
shield is in α fuel tank, the highest induced voltages will appear there.