tasks are as follows:
(α) Τ o determine the amplitude and waveform of the current on
the exterior of the aircraft. This external current may or may not be
the same as the undisturbed lightning current.
(bj Τ o relate the internal response of the aircraft structure to the
current flowing on its exterior. This internal response may be
expressed either in terms of an internal electric field or an internal
magnetic field.
Τ o determine how the internal response of the structure affects the (χ)
response of the aircraft'σ wiring. The response of the wiring may be
expressed either in terms of voltages or currents induced on active
electrical conductors or in terms of currents induced on shields.
Τ o determine how these currents and voltages affect the electrical (δ)
equipment in the aircraft.
8.2 The Exterior Response the Aircraft Structure of
The problem of how the aircraft as α whole responds to the passage of
8.2. There are two parts of this problem, lightning current is illustrated in Figure
one involving α direct flash to the aircraft and the other involving α nearby flash.
While it is generally true that the indirect effects produced by α direct flash are
by more severe than those produced α nearby flash, they are not necessarily so,
since the response of the aircraft external structure is different in the two cases.
Consider Grst α direct hit on the aircraft. The return stroke current enters
the aircraft at one extremity, flows through it, and exits from the other end. As
α result of the different impedances of the lightning channel and the aircraft, the
current flowing through the aircraft may undergo some distortion in waveform.
The result is that the waveform of the current leaving the aircraft may be
different from that entering the aircraft. Typically, the exit current rises to crest
α longer time than does input current. over
8.3. Α waveform is shown The phenomena involved are shown in Figure
Surge impedance is traveling along the conductor having surge impedance Z1.
defined as
Z where surge impedance (ohms) =
Λ inductance (henries) per unit length =
C capacitance (farads) per unit length =
at the point under consideration. At some point the current encounters α
Z1 transition point between the conductor having surge impedance and α
At this transition point, part of the different conductor of surge impedance Z2.
incident current is transmitted onto the second conductor, but part of it is
reflected back in the direction from which it came. The magnitudes of the
transmitted and reflected components of voltage or current at this transition