PEAK 18A
Current on overall shield. 13.25 Figure
complexes within the overall shield. Measurements were made on the shields of
two of the eight shielded quads and on the shield of the center complex. With
high-impedance terminations at each end of the cable, the voltage from each of
the individual shields to ground was the same. Voltages on individual conductors
within the shielded groups would be the same as the voltage on the shield of that
group. The position of a conductor within an overall shield thus has only a
secondarder effect on the coupling from the internal electric field of the shield
to the signal conductor.
13.27 Figure shows shield voltages measured with a low-impedance load
47 connecting the center shield to ground. load impedance of approxi- A 52
mately matches the surge impedance of the transmission line existing between
any of the shields on the internal groups and overall shield. It prevents the
development of oscillations which would otherwise be superimposed on an
underlying waveform, like those shown in Figure 13.26. Note that the voltage on
the center shield is now increased to nearly twice what it was with a
high-impedance load on the ends of the shields. Note, furthermore, that the
voltage on the other shields remains nearly the same as it was with all shields at
the left open circuited. The slight increase of voltage noted on the unconnected
shields results from capacitive coupling at the left end between the unconnected
shields and the one center shield that is held nearly at ground potential by the
47 load. Oscillogram No. 11 on Figure 13.28 shows the nature of these 52
superimposed oscillations if the shield on the center complex is grounded
V, directly. The voltage, shown measured at the right-hand end of the cable was
in fact measured on one of the conductors within the center complex. The same
voltage would be measured on any of the other conductors or on the shield
itself.
the ground on the center shield is moved to the right-hand side, the If
389