theoretically the conditions which will lead to surface damage because they
depend upon many variables, such as the geometrical design and the details of
the crystal structure of the surface. The theoretical prediction of surface arcing
under pulse conditions is not practical (Reference 16.1). It should be cautioned
that surface damage, in the general case, may occur in devices at power levels
which are orders of magnitude below those sustainable by devices in which bulk
occurs (Reference 16.2). damage
Bulk damage, which results in α permanent change in the characteristic
electrical parameters of the junction, indicates some physical change in the
structure of the semiconductor crystal in the region of the junction. The most
significant change is melting of the junction as α result of high temperatures.
Other types of change may involve the impurity concentrations, the formation
of alloys of the crystal materials, or α large increase in the number of lattice
imperfections, either crystal dislocations or point defects.
The simplest structure to analyze is α diode. Consider Figure 16.1. In this
diode α current is assumed to flow as α result of some outside stimulus and, in
doing so, to produce α voltage across the diode. This voltage may be the forward
bias voltage (0.5 to 1.5 V), or it may be the reverse breakdown voltage if the
I outside stimulus has biased the diode the reverse direction. Assume that is α in
square wave and that is not α function of time, as it might be if V depended V
upon the junction temperature. The instantaneous power dissipated in the diode
is then also α square pulse of magnitude
and the total energy produced is
I
Assume that the power level is sufficient that the device fails at the end of the
pulse. Both experimental and theoretical analyses indicate that the power (or
energy) required to cause failure depends on pulse width: the narrower the
pulse, the greater the power required to cause failure. Over α broad range of times,
typically between 0.1 ps and 100 ps, the power required to cause failure is
inversely proportional to the square root of time. For very short pulse durations
the power required to cause failure is inversely proportional to the first power of
time, and for very long pulse durations the power required to cause failure is α
constant threat. These relations may be expressed by the following equations:
>
Π Constant τ (16.5) 100 = ps
1 where To generally lies between 10 ns and ps.
Ω Figure 16.2 (Reference 16.3) shows an example for α 10 diode. The most