15.6.5 Surge Protecting Connectors
At least two lines of activity have been pursued with the aim of
incorporating surge protective devices directly in electrical connections. One
15.2) approach (Reference incorporated spark gaps between the connector pins
and the connector shell. Α high dielectric material, rutile, was used to stimulate
internal flashover and to achieve α protective level of about 1100 to 1300 V with
an impulse ratio nearly unity, even with voltage rates of change of 10 kV/π.
(100 This design withstood extremely large currents to 250 kA). The work on
U.Σ. this device was performed at Sandia Laboratories and supported by the
Atomic Energy Commission.
Another line of approach uses zinc oxide varistor material to hold the pins
α connector. This work is being done by General Electric Company for the in
U.Σ. Army Harry Diamond Laboratories. Neither of these protective connector
designs is yet available commercially.
15.7 Improvement Through Transient Coordination
α Transient coordination is concept which, when reduced to its simplest
to terms, implies that targets relative transients will be assigned both to those
that design electronic equipment ("black boxes") and those that design wiring to
interconnect those black boxes. The task that is to be assigned the designers of
black boxes is to produce equipment that will be able to withstand transients on
all of the input and output wiring. The targets that form α part of the task will
be specifications describing the type of transients that the equipment must
withstand and to which it will be subjected as part of an acceptance or proof
test. The task that is to be assigned to the groups designing interconnecting
wiring is that no external threat, such as lightning or switching of inductive
devices, shall produce on the wiring transients larger than those which the black
box was designed to withstand. The target numbers to which the wiring designer
must work will be maximum amplitudes of current, voltage, and surge energy.
α referee who The assignment of such tasks implies that there must be
assigns the appropriate target numbers and oversees the work to ensure that both
parties fulfill the tasks assigned. This referee may be called the system integrator.
15.8. The aims of The transient coordinator philosophy is illustrated in Figure
transient coordination would be the following:
Insure that the actual transient level produced by lightning (or any 1 .
other source of transient) will be less than that associated with the
transient control level number assigned to the cable designer. The
cable designer'σ job would be to analyze the electromagnetic threat
that lightning would present and to use whatever techniques of
be circuit routing or shielding would necessary to ensure that the
actual transients produced by lightning did not exceed the values
specified for that particular type of circuit.
The transient design level controlling the type of circuit or circuit 2.
protection techniques used, and assigned to the avionics designer,