CHAPTER 7
STRUCTURES PROTECTION
7.1 Introduction
It was not easy, however, to escape from Crete, since Minos
kept all his ships under military guard, and now offered a large
reward for his apprehension. But Daedalus made a pair o f wings for
himself, and another for Icarus, the quill feathers of which were
threaded together, but the smaller ones held in place by wax. Having
tied on Icarus' pair for him, he said with tears in his eyes: "My son,
be warned! Neither soar too high, lest the sun melt the wax; nor
sweep too low, lest the feathers be wetted by the sea!" Then he
slipped his arms into his own pair of wings and they flew off.
me 'rFollow closely," he cried, "do not set your own course."
As they sped away from the island in a north-easterly
wit~gs, the fishermen, shepherds, and direction, flapping their
ploughmen who gazed upward mistook them for gods.
They had left Naxos, Delos, and Paros behind them on the left
hand, and were leaving Lebynthos and Colymne behind on the right,
when Icarus disobeyed his father's instructions and began soaring
towards the sun, rejoicing in the lift of his great sweeping wings.
Presently, when Daedalus looked over his shoulder, he could no
longer see Icarus; but scattered feathers floated on the waves below.
had The heat of the sun melted the wax, and Icanrs had fallen into
the sea and drowned. Daedalus circled around, until the corpse rose
to the surface, and then carried it to the nearby island now called
Robert Graves, Icaria, where he buried it. The Greek Myths I
12-1 3 3. 1955): (Baltimore: Penguin Books,
The materials of which an aircraft is made and the methods used to hold
these materials together, forming the aircraft are factors as important structure,
a in protecting modern aircraft from hazardous natural environments as they
were for the mythical Icams. Conventional aluminum airframes of riveted
construction have, by virtue of their excellent electrical conductivity, rarely
suffered critical damage from lightning strikes; and these structures have
provided excellent protection for more vulnerable systems, as well as for
personnel, carried within. But the day of all-metal aircraft is ending. Taking their
place will be aircraft constructed partly of new, fiber-reinforced plastics with
desirable light-weight and highstrength properties but with poor electrical
conductivity. Some of these materials will be fastened together with equally
nonconductive adhesives, the strength of which may be lost if the adhesives are
exposed to lightning currents. Whereas the designer of the all-metal structure
v
needed to add little, if anything, to his design to achieve adequate lightning
protection, the designers of nonmetallic structures must pay particular attention
to the lightning environment, taking positive measures to protect against its