own, and the intensity of the eddy current will be of α nature such that the
magnetic field produced is exactly that required to cancel the normal
component of the exterior field. If, as shown in Figure 10.9(χ), α number of
lines of magnetic flux attempt to penetrate the surface of the elliptical cylinder,
α the eddy currents produced by each line of flux combine to produce
circulating current. In an elliptical cylinder of this nature there will be four
regions of circulating current, two on each of the two sides. These circulating
will be of α nature such as to increase the current density at the edges of currents
the cylinder and to reduce it along the center. They also cancel any penetrating
magnetic field, forcing the field around the cylinder to be entirely tangential to
the surface, at least initially.
The eddy currents cannot exist forever, since energy will be lost as the
currents circulate through the resistance of the metal sheet. Accordingly, the
current density at all points will vary with time, eventually becoming uniformly
distributed in structures having uniform thickness and made of uniform
resistivity materials. Figure 10.10 shows the manner in which the current density
will vary. As the circulating current shown in Figure 10.10(χ) decays to zero,
the current at the edge will decay from its initial high value to the final
resistively determined value, and the current at the center will increase from its
initially low value. The current densities will change according to an essentially
exponential pattern, though the transient increase in surface resistance produced
by skin effects will prevent the circulating current from following α true
exponential decay.
One expression giving the magnitude of this redistribution time constant
that has appeared in the literature (Reference 10.1) is:
Α enclosed area of structure where =
Π peripheral distance around the structure =
The thickness of the wall, α, is assumed to be very small compared to other
dimensions. For α rectangular box of sides height η and width δ, Equation 10.15
becomes
physical treatment of the redistribution time constant can also be given. Α
the decay is treated as exponential, the factors governing that decay are the If
characteristic inductance and resistance of the path through which the
1. circulating currents flow. These factors are illustrated in Figure 10.1 The
circulating currents may be viewed as flowing in one direction along α strip along
the edge of the cylinder and back along another strip towards the center of the
cylinder. The rate at which the circulating currents decrease is governed by the
inductance and resistance of the pair of hypothetical strips. Such α pair is shown