CHAPTER 4
LIGHTNING EFFECTS ON AIRCRAFT
4.1 Introduction
"We had just taken off from Presque Isle, Maine, and had been
50 minutes, when a large thunderhead cumulus in cruise power for
was observed directly on course. Lightning could be seen around the
edges and inside the thunderhead. All cockpit lights were on and the
instrument spotlight was full on, with the door open. had just I
finished setting the power and fuel flows for each engine. As the ship
approached the thunderhead, there was a noticeable drop in
horsepower arzd the airplane lost from MPH airspeed to I68 180
MPH, and continued to lose airspeed due to power loss as we
. . . approached the thunderhead. few seconds before the A
lightning bolt hit the airplane all four engines were silent and the
propellers were windmilling. Simultaneous with the fish of lighr-
?zing, the engines surged with the original power. The lightning flash
blinded the Captain and me so severely that we were unable to see
for approximately eight minutes. tried several times during this I
First interval to read cockpit instruments and it was impossible. lie
Officer was called fiom the rear to watch the cockpit. Of course,
turbulent air currents inside the cumulus tossed the ship around to
such an extent that, had the airplane not been on auto-pilot when
the flash occurred and during the interval of blindness the by
cockpit occupants, the ship could have easily gone completely out of
control The Captain and I discussed the reason for all four engines
cutting simultaneously prior to the lightning &sh and could not
explain it, except for the possibility of a magnetic potentialaround
or secondary circuit of all eight the cumulus affecting the primary
" N.A. First Officer Pierson's experience magnetos at the same time.
on a flight from Presque Isle, Maine, to the Santa Maria Islands on
1945 4. (Reference July 9, I).
It wasn't long after the beginning of powered flight that aircraft began
being struck by lightning--sometimes with catastrophic results. The early
wooden aircraft with metal control cables and guy wires were not capable of
conducting lightning-stroke currents of several thousand amperes or more.
Wooden members and even the control cables exploded or caught fire. Even if
severe structural damage did not occur, pilots were frequently shocked or
burned by lightning currents entering their hands or feet via control pedals or
the stick. Sometimes fuel tanks caught fire or exploded. These effects, coupled
with the air turbulence and precipi-tation also associated with thunderstorms,
quickly taught pilots to stay clear of stormy weather.
With the advent of all-metal aircraft, most of the catastrophic effects were
eliminated, but thunderstorms continued to be treated with respect. Nonethe-