3 CHAPTER
LIGHTNING STRIKE EXPERIENCE
The atmospheric and flight conditions under which aircraft have been
struck by lightning have been of interest since the beginning of powered flight
because lightning and other thunderstorm effects, such as turbulence and icing,
are to be avoided if possible. To learn about these conditions, various
lightning-strike incident reporting projects have been implemented. Beginning in
1938, the Subcommittee on Meteorological Problems of the National Advisory
Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) prepared and distributed a sixteen-page
questionnaire to airlines and the Armed Forces (Reference 3.1). Pilots filled out
one of these questionnaires after each lightning-strike incident and forwarded it
to the NACA subcommittee for analysis. This questionnaire was evidently too
long for widespread use, however, and, although it could have been shortened,
1950. was discontinued by Nevertheless, the program provided important data
for the first time on the meteorological conditions prevailing when strikes
occurred and the resulting effects on the aircraft. For one thing, the data
obtained from the NACA program showed that some lightning-strike conditions
arc common to many incidents.
Subsequent programs were conducted by the Lightning and Transients
Research Institute (LTRI) (Reference 3.2) and the FAA (Reference 3.3).
Projects currently in operation are being conducted by Plumer and Hourihan of
General Electric (Reference 3.4), Anderson and Kriininger of South Africa
(Reference 3.5), Perry of the British Civil Aviation Authority (Reference 3.6),
and Trunov of the USSR National Research Institute for Civil Aviation
(Reference 3.7). Strike incidence data, based largely on turbojet or turboprop
aircraft, is usually summarized according to the following categories:
Altitude
Flight path (i.e., climb, level flight, descend, etc.)
Meteorological conditions
Outside air temperature
Lightning-strike effects on the aircraft
Altitude, flight path, meteorological conditions, and air temperature are
topics discussed in this chapter. Lightning-strike effects on aircraft will be
discussed in the succeeding chapter.
Altitude and Flight Path 3.2
Figure 3.1 shows the altitudes at which these reporting projects show
aircraft are being struck, as compared with a typical cumulonimbus (thunder)
cloud. The turbojet and turboprop data from the four summaries are in close
agreement. For comparison, the data from the earlier piston aircraft survey of
Newman (Reference 3.8) are also presented. Cruise altitude for jet aircraft is
considerably higher (10 km) than that of earlier piston aircraft, which flew at