timelag curve of the shape shown in Figure 7.16. Timelag effect means simply
this: the shorter the time for which α voltage is applied across α given insulation,
the higher that voltage must be to cause breakdown; and conversely, the longer
the time, the lower the voltage necessary to cause breakdown. There is, of
course, α voltage level below which breakdown will not occur at all, even if the
voltage is applied for α long time. Most solids show α flatter timelag
characteristic than do air or surface flashover paths, as shown Figure 7.16. in
TO BREAKDOWN Time
Breakdown timelag curves solids and air. 7.16 for Figure
In general, for fiberglass components, such as the radome of Figure 7.14
and the fuel tank section of Figure 7.15, an oncoming lightning flash has
alternate paths to α metallic conductor. One is via α puncture of the nonmetallic
skin to an internal metallic component, such as the radar dish. The other via is
surface flashover to the nearest exposed metal. While the path via the puncture
may be much shorter than that along the outside surface, the added insulation
provided by the solid skin often compensates to some degree for this, making
both paths viable alternatives. The significance of voltage rate of rise now
becomes evident. Because the timelag curve for the alternate paths cross each
other, there are voltage waveforms that will intersect either timelag curve, as
shown Figure 7.17, where both α "fast" and α "slow" voltage waveform are in
superimposed on the breakdown timelag curves of Figure 7.16.
From Figure 7.17 it is evident that the faster rising test voltage is the more
severe in terms of increased probability of puncture. Thus, for attachment tests,
7.15, such as those of Figures 7.14 and α test voltage with the fastest rate of rise
expected from α natural lightning leader is desirable.
No time-domain measurements have as yet been made of the electric fields
surrounding an aircraft during the lightning-strike formation process because
such measurements present formidable instrumentation problems. However, in
o5 ξ 2 Chapter Section we state that the leader advances at about to I I 1.2.3, 1,
5 μ/σ, which would result in an average of to 10 ys for the leader to travel α
1 500 distance of μ. Since about kV are required to break down α 1 μ air gap in
210