Tests may be made on a complete aircraft, during which tests
currents of low amplitude but correct waveshape are circulated
thlough the aircraft. Such tests are sometimes called frutzsietlt
in and are discussed Section 17.3.2. ut2u!ysis testr
Tests may be made upon individual pieces of electronic equipment
or upon interconnected electronic subsystems. During such tests it is
assumed, explicitly or implicitly, that the waveshapes of the current
or voltage surges injected into the pieces of equipment or subsystems
are representative of those produced by natural lightning. Some of
the aspects of such tests are discussed in Section 17.5.
17.2 Definitions Waveform
Before discussing test techniques in detail or discussing the advantages and
disadvantages of different types of tests, it would be well to discuss general types
of waveforms and the terms used to describe these waveforms.
Waveforms of either voltage or current tend to fall into one of the
The waveforms shown in Figure 17.1 are categories shown in Figure 17.1.
described in two ways: in terms of the natural type of waveform produced (1)
(2) by physically reali~able test circuits and by their triangular approximation.
When any test waveform is described in terms of its triangular approximations, it
must be understood that there is no intent that an actual test be made with
triangular waveforms, since such waveforms can never be produced with
physically realizable hardware. Any test that is to be done should be performed
with natural waveforms, of which a specified triangular wave is only a
convenient approximation.
Perhaps the most common waveform encountered during indirect effects
testing is the damped oscillatory waveform of Figure 17.l(a). The major
characteristics of importance for such a waveform are the peak amplitude, A,
or alternatively, the frequency, f. Since an oscillatory and the period, T ,
waveform may be either a basically cosinusoidal waveform (one starting at the
A) or a sinusoidal waveform (one starting at zero), the initial peak amplitude
time to crest, t should generally be specified in addition to the period, or 1,
natural, frequency. In addition, specifications may be required as to the
decrement of the wave, or the time required for the oscillations to damp out to a
negligible amplitude.
The second most commonly encountered waveform is the exponential
wave of Figure 17.l(b). This waveform describes the characteristics of a
capacitor discharging through a resistor. The most common specifications relate
to the peak amplitude, the time to crest, t i , and the duration of the tail, or A,
decay, t2. The front time is described most commonly in terms of its triangular
approximation, the time required for a tangent line through the major t',,
portion of the leading edge to intercept the projection of the peak amplitude.
Surge generators frequently have enough inherent inductance that the leading
edge is fairly linear over a reasonable length of time, in which case the best fit
tangent line may be drawn by inspection. To cover those situations in which the