A one of the external surfaces than it is to any of the other external surfaces.
typical cavity would be a gun bay or an electronic equipment bay located dong
the fuselage of the aircraft and accessible through access panels. For the moment
the effects of the access panels will be ignored. The geometry is shown in Figure
10.2qa).
The cavity may be viewed as being formed from one face exposed to the
external magnetic field and the current producing that field, and with its other
faces formed by metal sheets, which, like the exposed surface, may be assumed
to extend toward infinity. Mirrored in the reflecting surface defining the back of
an the cavity will be image of the face of the cavity exposed to the magnetic
D, field. The image will be spaced a distance, behind the face carrying the
the image the reflection of the external current will be of current, and in
opposite polarity. The electric field produced on the inner surface of the face
exposed to the external current, shown in Figure 10.24(c), will act to force a
current, Icirc, around the interior of the circuit defining the cavity. The length
of the loop involved will be the same as the length of the cavity, and the width
will be twice the depth of the cavity. The internal voltage gradient will be
proportional to the product of the inner current density and the resistivity of
the face carrying the external current and, as described earlier, will exhibit the
characteristic pulse penetration buildup described in Figure 10.6. This voltage
may be viewed as impressed across a loop or cavity inductance, Z
The resistance and inductance will both be governed by the effective
characteristics of the loop defining the cavity.
Typical current paths and their characteristic impedances are shown in
Figure 10.25. Some cavities may be viewed as being sufficiently long and narrow
that they may be defined by parallel strips. Others are basically of rectangular or
circular shape, or of some simple shape that may be approximated by an
equivalent circular cylinder. The inductance and resistance of each configuration
are shown. Each of the inductance equations (Reference 10.3) has a correction
F', K-- k, or that relates to the shape of the enclosure. These factor--loge
correction factors are shown in Figure 10.26.
If the cavity is provided with a removable cover, and if this cover is in the
external current flow or is exposed to the external magnetic field, the effects are
as illustrated Figure 10.27. If the cover is assumed to be of the same material in
and thickness as the rest of the face upon which it is mounted, the principal
effects relate to the resistance of the fasteners used to hold the cover in place.
The covers will seldom make good electrical contact to the rest of the surface
except at the fasteners themselves. Accordingly, the external currents flowing in
the face will be constricted in the vicinity of the fastener and pass from that face
onto the cover through the fastener. The major effect of this constriction of
current flow is to introduce a lumped resistance into the electrical circuit,
although there is a certain amount of inffuence on the inductance of the circuit
be whenever the current is constricted. It will seen, then, that the greater the
322