It simulates over α narrow band of frequencies one important aspect
of indirect effects--the resistive coupling of electromagnetic fields.
High amplitude is available from relatively low-energy-surge gener-
ators, since little energy is lost in waveshaping resistance.
It can approach α full-threat-level test of lower frequency resistive
coupling effects, at least for lightning strokes of low to average
amplitude.
The slow oscillatory wave has drawbacks parallel to those of the
high-frequency test wave:
It overemphasizes (and deliberately so) one of the component
frequencies of lightning currents.
It may not correctly simulate diffusion penetration of magnetic
fields. One can take refuge, however, in the observation that
imperfect simulation is better than no simulation.
It does not constitute α full-threat-level test for the higher amplitude
lightning flashes. Data obtained at low amplitudes require extra-
polation to give effects that would be present at full lightning-
current amplitude.
It is fundamentally different in waveshape from the waveshapes of
natural lightning currents.
It is potentially damaging to avionic equipment. The observation
made previously about the high-frequency test waveform applies
equally well to the same drawback in the low-frequency test.
It too requires bulky test equipment.
17.3.2 Transient Analysis Tests
Α major virtue of the fast oscillatory test wave is that it can simulate fairly
well one of the important aspects of natural lightning--the electromagnetic
effect, associated with the initial rate of change of lightning current. Because of
the emphasis that is placed on rate of change, it is often believed that only rate
of change of current is important. Likewise, it is often believed that α
nondamaging test for indirect effects analysis can be made by applying α current
that initially rises at the full-threat-level rate, 100 kA/ps, but not allowing that
current to flow for very long or not allowing it to increase to α high amplitude.
Such concepts are fallacious.
Consider Figure 17.3 (Reference 17.5) in which two different current
waves are applied to an equivalent circuit of the type shown in Figure 17.3(α).
One current rises at the rate of 100 kA/,us to α value of 10 kA, with τ λ equal to
0.1 ps, and the second rises at the rate of 100 kA/ω to α value of 100 kA, with
equal to ps. The responses of the circuit, shown in Figure 17.4 (Reference τ 1 1
are fundamentally different. 17.6),
The most nearly correct method of making α nondestructive test of
indirect effects is to keep the basic waveshape the same, reducing only the
amplitudes. Such scaling is shown in Figure 17.5 (Reference 17.7). Frequently,
concern is expressed about the fact that reducing amplitude but keeping front
1 50