Segmented Strips
Segmented strips, sometimes called "button strips," are one of several
developments in lightning protection technology. These segmented strips,
developed by Arnason and Cassell of Douglas Aircraft Company (Reference
51, consist of a series of thin, conductive segments, or "buttons," fastened to 7.1
a strap of resistive material, which is then bonded to the surface to be protected,
Figure 7.29. Instead of attempting to conduct lightning currents, as shown in
these segmented strips provide many small air gaps that ionize and spark when
an intense electric field is applied along the strip, as is the case when a lightning
leader approaches. Since the small gaps are close together, the resulting
ionization is nearly continuous. Thus the segmented strips provide a conductive
path, initially for streamers to follow outward from the aircraft and, after these
reach the leader, for return stroke and other currents to flow into the airframe.
The construction of the strip and breakdown process are pictured in Figure 7.30.
Segmented strips. 7.29 Figure
Laboratory tests such as the one illustrated in Figure 7.31 show that the
segmented diverters are nearly as effective in intercepting strikes and preventing
punctures of fiberglass walls as are the solid conductors. Since ionization of the
strips requires that an electric field be able to exist in the direction of their
length, the segmented strips will perform best if oriented normal to conductive
portions of the airframe rather than parallel to such structure. Also, the strips
should not be positioned parallel to a conducting object lying beneath the
nonmetallic surface. For example, the grounding tube within the radome of
Figure 7.4 will reduce the electric field gradient along its length to nearly zero,
so that a segmented diverter positioned near the tube may not ionize and an
approaching flash may puncture the radome wall and attach, instead, to the tube
itself. Thus, segmented diverters should be positioned on either side of the
grounding tube but not directly over it. This positioning is also necessary to
prevent inductive voltage along an ionized strip from puncturing the radome
wall, as discussed in Section 7.3.1.2.
The maximum spacing between segmented diverters--or the minimum
permissible spacing between them and underlying conductors--is dependent,
among other things, upon the amount of voltage required to ionize the