These expressions are based upon the further assumption of a pure dipole and, as
with Equations 11.6 through 11 .I 1 for the magnetic field formulation, would
indicate infinite field strengths as one approached the plane of the aperture,
whereas in fact the field in the plane of the aperture would be one-half the field
strength that would exist at that point if the aperture were absent. A power
series expansion of the field from a dipole of finite size could be prepared but, as
of this writing, has not been. The bookkeeping routines necessary to handle
electric fields are virtually identical with those used for magnetic fields and
could be incorporated into the APERTURE program, although, as of this
writing, they have not been so included.
11.3 Field Magnetic Zones
From the foregoing it can be seen that the task of mapping the magnetic
field inside a vehicle and actually calculating the voltage on any particular circuit
could be a formidable task. A possible solution to the problem lies in recognizing
that aircraft, or at least aircraft within a particular category, tend to possess
characteristic zones. On a fighter aircraft, for example, the cockpit can be
regarded as a magnetically open zone exposed primarily to aperture-coupled
magnetic fields. Within reasonable limits, all fighter aircraft probably have
approximately the same magnetic field in the cockpit. Another type of
equipment zone characteristic of fighters would be equipment bays located in
the forward section and behind the radome. All such equipment bays tend to be
alike, the differences, perhaps, relating mostly to the type of fasteners used to
hold the covers in place. The structure within a wing is a type of magnetic field
structure fundamentally different from either the cockpit or the forward
equipment bays. Accordingly, it would seem possible to divide an aircraft into a
relatively small number of typical zones, to assign a ruling or charactxistic
magnetic field intensity to those zones, and to provide rather simplified tables of
nomograms listing the characteristic transient likely to be induced in wiring of a
given length.
This concept of dividing an aircraft into shielding zones was first used on
-6). (Reference 11 The zones so defined are shown in Figure the Space Shuttle
11.13 (Reference 11.7). The electromagnetic fields assigned to each of these
zones were initially determined by "seat of the pants" engineering by a group of
engineers knowledgeable in the field. These magnetic fields were then refined