can be determined, and protective measures designed if necessary.
SAE Special Task The lightning attachment zone definitions proposed by
F (Reference 5.1) are repeated below:
An initial attachment point with a low probability of flash Zone IA:
hang-on, such as a leading edge
An initial attachment point with a high probability of flash IB: Zone
hang-on, such as a trailing edge
Zone a A swept-stroke zone with low probability of flash hang-on, 2A:
such as a wing mid-span
A swept-stroke zone with high probability of flash hang-on, Zone2B:
such as a wing inboard trailing edge
Locations of these zones can be determined either from comparison with
actual lightning attachment points on existing aircraft or by laboratory tests in
which a scale model of the aircraft is subjected to simulated lightning strikes.
Perry (Reference 5.2) has shown the locations of actual lightning attachment
points on several types of propeller and turbojet aircraft in use in the United
Kingdom and Europe. His strike patterns for three aircraft are shown on Figures
5.3 (Reference 5.3). From these figures it is evident that initial 5.1, 5.2, and
attachment points (Zone IA and 1B) are at or very near the extremities, such as
nose, wing tips, or empennage tips. if an initial attachment point is at a trailing
edge, the arc must hang on there until the flash dies naturally; thus more damage
may occur. On the other hand, if the initial attachment point is a forward
extremity, such as the nose, the aircraft can fly through the flash channel,
allowing the arc to reattach at subsequent points along the line of flight, as
evident from the lines of successive burn marks dong the fuselage in the three
figures. Thus, forward initial attachment points are commonly in Zone 1A and
the subsequent burn marks in Zone Once in a while, the flash may remain 3A.
attached to a forward-most extremity or to a small protrusion, such as an
antenna or even a rivet head along the fuselage. In such cases the attachment
a point becomes B-Zone point with high probabiIity of hang-on. Since most
lightning flashes persist for one-fourth of a second or more (up to about 1
second), the aircraft may move forward its entire length, or more, in this period
of time, and its entire length may be exposed to swept-lightning flashes. Its
2. entire length must therefore be considered to be in Zone
If a new aircraft design is of the same general configuration (that is,
relative position and size of fuselage, wings, empennage, etc.) the general
location of its lightning attachment zones can be determined by comparison
with known attachment points on similar aircraft. Knowledge of the exact
boundaries between one zone and another is important, however, and these
boundaries must often be determined by a laboratory test in wh~ch a full-size
replica of the aircraft assembly in question (such as a wing tip or nose radome) is
subjected to simulated lightning flashes from various directions. Knowledge of
these zone boundaries is particularly important in designing protection for wing
fuel tanks, for example. Recogni7ing that laboratory tests may not be practical,
the Federal Aviation Administration in its advisory circular on protection of
aircraft fuel systems against lightning defined Zone 1 as including "[a] ll surfaces
106