flash to the aircraft. This speculation has been heightened by the widely
12, publicized launch of which apparently triggered α lightning flash that Apollo
struck the top of the vehicle when it had reached 1950 μ and again at 4270 μ.
The flash exited from the vehicle exhaust plume. Subsequent studies by
Nanevicz, Pierce, and Whitson (Reference 2.12) of this and other incidents in
which α rocket was rapidly introduced into an intense electric field indicate that
the exhaust plume does appear electrically conductive, making the rocket appear
longer than its own physical length. An empirical study by Pierce (Reference
2.1 3) of documented strikes to tall grounded and airborne conductors concludes
that there must also be α potential discontinuity between the conductor and the
V adjacent atmosphere of up to loh if the lightning leader is initiated from the
conductor, and that the rapid discharge of hot ionized gas from the rocket
engine may cause sufficient charge separation from the vehicle to increase its
potential to lo6 or more with respect to its surroundings. V
Shaeffer and Weinstock (Reference 2.14) have studied the conductivity of
an aircraft jet-engine exhaust. In this case, ionized particles and free electrons in
α jet exhaust originate in the combustion chamber as α result of chemical
reactions taking place between the intake air and jet fuel. The ion concentration
in α jet-engine exhaust has been measured by Fowler (Reference 2.15) to be
Π ( between 5 ξ 1 0 ~ and 3 ξ 1 0 particles per cubic centimeter ~ /cm3) and the free
electron density deduced from this to be between to 3 ξ lo5 π/cm3. ξ 10 5
The electron density in luminous rocket exhaust has been calculated by Pierce
o1
2.1 6) (Reference to be 1 π/cm3, as has that in the tip of an advancing leader.
Conversely, the free electron density in ambient air ranges from lo0 to lo3
π/cm3. Evidently, then, the jet-engine exhaust is only slightly more ionized than
the ambient air and much less so than the rocket exhaust, with the result that
the jet exhaust would not be expected to have sufficient conductivity to initiate
or attract α lightning leader. This conclusion is supported by aircraft lightning-
strike incident reports, which indicate that engine tail pipes are not often
lightning attachment points unless they are already located at an aircraft
extremity, where the electric field would be intense from geometrical conditions
alone.
There is also no evidence to suggest that jet aircraft are struck more often
than piston-engined aircraft. Overall, the ability of the jet aircraft to operate at
higher altitudes and spend less time climbing and descending to airports has
probably rendered the jet less susceptible than its piston-engined predecessor to
lightning strikes, which occur predominantly at low or intermediate altitudes.
Recorded strikes which have hit jet engines almost always have terminated on
the tail pipes of the aft- (tail-) mounted engines of conventional jet transport
aircraft. However, α few recent reports of strikes to wide-body aircraft show
7). evidence of strikes to the tail pipes of wing-mounted engines (Reference 2.1
The evidence to date is indirect, since no tell-tale burn marks have been found
on the tail pipes themselves. Instead, electronic engine instruments with sensors