adverse effects lest safety of flight be endangered.
In this chapter we first review lightning effects on metal structures and
discuss how to design protection for the few situations where special protection
is necessary. We then review the expected lightning effects on nonmetallic
materials such as fiberglass and the advanced composites.
Concern for the potential hazards has prompted a large number of
laboratory studies of lightning effects and protection techniques for these
materials. We summarize the important results of these studies and discuss those
protective techniques and devices which appear most promising. Our discussion
emphasizes the electrical performance, leaving to the structures designer (who
himself is best equipped to answer them) questions of compatibility with other
requirements or manufacturing methods.
7.2 Metallic Structures
Because of their inherently good electrical conductivity, conventional
aluminum aircraft structures have rarely suffered serious damage from lightning
strikes, and few protective measures have had to be added. The metal skins, ribs,
spars, stringers, and other substructures may themselves be utilized to provide
the safe conducting path for lightning currents between possible attachment
points called for as a basic protection principle in Chapter No special 5.
conductor dedicated only for lightning currents need be added to conduct
lightning currents through the aircraft, as long as care is taken in the design of
basic skins and structures. It would, in fact, be highly impractical, and even
dangerous, to design a separate "lightning conductor" to be run through a metal
aircraft. No further mention of such a conductor will be made.
Thus, in accord with the principle of providing a safe conductive path for
lightning currents, metallic skins and substructures should be designed to provide
this conductive path and to minimize, or safely tolerate, the following lightning
effects:
Melting at lightning attachment points
Resistive temperature rise
Magnetic force effects
Arcing across bonds, hinges, and joints
Ignition of vapors within fuel tanks.
Techniques to assess these effects and design protection, if needed, are discussed
the following paragraphs. in
7.2.1 Points Melting at Lightning Attach~iient
The quantity of metal melted away at a lightning attachment point has
been shown to be most closely related to the charge carried into the point by the
lightning flash together with the type of metal and its thickness. Most of the
charge is delivered by intermediate and continuing current components of the
a flash, and the amount of this charge that is necessary to initiate hole (i.e., a
6.6 pinhole) in a metal skin has been discussed in Section of Chapter The 6.