represents the lightning-related current passing through a lightning arrester after
it has been caused to spark over internally by a voltage surge of different
waveshape. Both the voltage and current waveshapes represent transients that
may be produced by basically simple laboratory test equipment. They do not
necessarily represent the shape of the current or voltage transients produced by
natural lightning.
At one stage in the development of the Space Shuttle Criteria Document,
there was an allowance made for two basically unidirectional transient test
waves. While those test waves had some deficiencies and have been largely
superseded, discussion of them is still appropriate, since that discussion will
illustrate some of the problems inherent in waveform specifications.
2 The first of these specifications dealt with a transient rising to crest in ps
and decaying to zero in 100 ps. The intent of this test wave was to dupIicate in
some manner the effects produced by magnetic flux leaking through apertures.
The waveform had its basis in the ANSI test waves. These waveforms permitted a
backswing, a feature characteristic of transformer-coupled surges. The backswing
amplitude was required to be less than of the initial amplitude, but the 25%
duration of the backswing was left uncontrolled. The test waveform was not
overdamped wave was intended to be interpreted as requiring a backswing. An
perfectly satisfactory. If an overdamped waveform was used, there would be no
clearly defined time to zero. In such cases the decay time was intended to be
taken as one-half the indicated value (50 ps instead of 100 ps) and measured to
the time at which the wave had decayed to 50% of its initial amplitude. The
ANSI test waveform derived for tests waveform was thus similar to the standard
2 2 on high-voltage apparatus. The front time of ps reflected the ps front time of
the basic lightning design current. The transients themselves were specified as
V A open circuit and 10 short circuit. having amplitudes of 50
The second specification related to a long-duration transient representing
the effects produced by magnetic flux diffusing through the walls of cavities.
Such flux would have rise and decay times much longer than those of the
lightning current. The specification called for a short circuit current of 5 A and
V, an open circuit voltage of 0.5 both taking 300 ps to reach crest and another
300 ps for decay to zero. The specification of equal times to crest and from crest
back to zero is incompatible with the response of real physical elements. In
practice, any waveform with a rise time of 300 would have a decay time pi
longer than 600 ,us.
One common deficiency of the above specifications was that both the
short circuit current and open circuit voltage had the same waveshape. In
practice the open circuit voltage would be of a duration shorter than that of the
short circuit current.
In the original paper in which the concept of transient control levels was
first presented (Reference 17.17), Fisher and Martzloff proposed a test wave
that was primarily unidirectional. The open circuit voltage was characterized by
a fast rise to crest and then a decay to zero in 5 ps, or greater. To allow for
transformer coupling of the transient, a backswing was allowed after the
transient had decayed to zero. The character of the backswing was not