Graphite composites, by virtue of their higher conductivity, provide 3.
more effective shielding than do boron composites.
When conductive coatings are present for control of the direct 4.
effects of lightning, they will have more effectiveness as electro-
magnetic shields than the composites they protect.
When conductive coatings are not needed for direct effects protec- 5.
tion, electrical wiring enclosed within these composites may need to
be placed in conduits or otherwise shielded from the intense fields
which will pas. through the composites.
Electric fields (Efields) are also associated with lightning strikes and may
cause as much interference in some electrical systems as do the magnetic fields,
as or more. No E-field shielding effectiveness data have yet been reported,
however.
Furthermore, no measurements have yet been made of the voltages which
lightning may actually induce in the electrical circuits inside of composite
aircraft structures because there have been few such structures yet available. Nor
are there analytical techniques yet available for prediction of field levels within
composite structures. The shielding effectiveness measurements reported by
Fisher and others have always involved small panels usually clamped to a simple
test receptacle, like that of Figure 7.41. However, when panels are employed in a
structure, with provisions made for conducting currents out of edges and joints,
it is likely that some improvement in shielding effectiveness will result, and the
situation will not be as bleak as it is indicated to be by the small panel data now
available.
Protection for Advanced Composites 7.3.2.5
That it is necessary to supply lightning protection for all composites wher-
ever they are employed on the aircraft is certainly not a foregone conclusion.
4 2A, plies thick and located in Zone for Graphite composites greater than
example, will not be completely punctured and will suffer only localized surface
damage, as indicated by Figure 7.39. Some lightning protection may be
1 necessary, however, for Zone applications of graphite and for virtually arzjl
lightning-stroke zone application of boron.
number of programs have been undertaken to develop suitable A
protective coatings for composites. The most important of these was conducted
by Quinlivan, Kuo, and Brick (Reference 7.30), who developed and tested a
wide variety of conductive coatings, and Brick, King, and Quinlivan have
continued this work (Reference 7.31). Coatings evaluations have also been
carried out by Fisher and Fassell (Reference 7.32) and others; the reader is urged
to study these references to obtain the performance data necessary for the
selection of a coating for a particular application. Coatings that have performed
especially well include the five discussed below.
Wire Fabrics
Wire fabrics are flexible meshes woven or knitted from very fine aluminum
245