CHAPTER 16
COMPONENT DAMAGE ANALYSIS
16.1 Introduction
The energy coupled into a system by lightning induces large current pulses
into the cabling and wiring of the system and resulting voltage pulses across
loads. Determining whether or not these voltages and currents cause upset or
damage to active or passive components requires a knowledge of the failure
thresholds of devices. These failure thresholds were investigated extensively
(NEMP) effects on electronic during studies of nuclear electromagnetic pulse
equipment.
Assessment of the vulnerability of a system to a transient environment
leads to the observation that failure of the system to function properly may
result from a degradation in performance of a single active or passive component
device when it is subjected to a transient voltage pulse. Systems vulnerability
evaluation therefore requires that one know the failure thresholds for devices
subjected to transients. Simulation of failure resulting from transients at the
component level can be conveniently performed in the laboratory by means of
high-voltage pulse generators. Information from such simulation can then be
correlated with the original threat (EMP or lightning) by analytical techniques.
Semiconductor electronic components are generally more vulnerable under pulse
conditions than are nonsemiconductor components; therefore, most of the
discussion of this section will be devoted to semiconductors.
16.2 Theoretical Models
The number of 'semiconductor devices that have been experimentally
tested (mostly diodes and transistors) is only a small sample of the total number
of devices available. However, the scope of the experimental results has been
extended by development of theoretical models which relate significant changes
in the properties of a semiconductor PN junction to high temperatures generated
in the junction region during application of a high-voltage pulse. Theoretical
models based on thermal analysis of the junction region yield a mathematical
in the junction relation between junction temperature and power dissipation
region. This re!ation can be used to define a constant characterizing the
operation in a given time domain of each device.
16.3 Empirical Models
In addition to the theoretical correlations just described, the experimental
data have been used in the development of empirical relations which are
obtained from two models of semiconductor junction devices--the junction
a capacitance model and the thermal resistance model. These models provide
framework from which the power failure threshold of an untested device can be