Table DWELL POINT SEPARATIONS FOR TYPICAL LIGHTNING 6.4
DWELL TIMES AND AIRCRAFT VELOCITIES
Velocities Aircraft (v) I Dwell
112 67 mls mls Times (td)
Δ=13.4cm 2.0 ms Δ=22.4cm
(8.8 (5.3 in) Unpainted in)
surface 1 IID=32.2cm Δ=53.8cm 4.8 ms
(12.7 Painted in) (21.1 in) I
surface
Because spacings of this order are often observed along aircraft surfaces,
the dwell times predicted by the Brick tests are realistic. The later work of Oh
and Schneider (Reference 6.45) basically confirms these results for uniform
airflow conditions but shows that conditions which cause the airstream to leave
the surface may force the arc to dwell longer at the last attachment point before
the airflow is diverted. Oh and Schneider also demonstrate that higher aircraft
velocities result in shorter arc dwell times, since the arc is stretched greater
distances, allowing sufficient voltage to build up along it to break down the
insulation at its heel (see Figure 6.21) at an earlier time.
Validity of the wind tunnel technique for simulating swept strokes along
metallic surfaces has sometimes been questioned because the airstream is used to
blow the arc along the surface of the test object, whereas in flight both the air
and the arc are stationary. It might be expected that the moving air would carry
the arc along at an equal velocity, but in practice this doesn'τ quite happen. In
addition, there must be cooling of the arc by the faster moving air, which allows
it to build voltage that in turn might create α new attachment point sooner than
had cooling not occurred. Also, the behavior of the upper terminus of the arc as
some it moves along the electrode probably has effect on the behavior of its
lower terminus at the test object. The scope of these effects and the extent to
which they cause departure from an authentic simulation of natural lightning has
not been investigated.
Α more realistic simulation would undoubtedly result if the test object,
like an aircraft in flight, could be moved through α stationary arc. Plumer
α 6.46) (Reference attempted this by driving wing tip fuel tank beneath α
15.5 (35 high-voltage electrode at α velocity of mls mph) Α flash was triggered
when the approaching tank, carried atop α truck, sufficiently closed the airgap
between the electrode and ground. Limitations of this technique were the low
velocity and the low ( 4 Α ) test current amplitude. Nonetheless, subsequent
in-flight lightning strikes to two fuel tanks of this type have confirmed the
146