If a boron composite were to be used, its thickness would have to be at
5 least ten times greater to restrict the damage radius to the same cm. The
thicknesses of either composite would have to be even greater, of course, if the
2 1, where an action integral of is composites were located in Zone x lo6 A ~ - S
to be expected. In such a case, it is likely that either the area of damage or the
composite thickness required to reduce this damage would be intolerable. And in
such case the addition of some protective device(s) capable of keeping some or a
all of the lightning current out of the composite should be considered. The
coatings and diverter strips for fiberglass described in Section 7.3.1.2 may also
applicable for advanced composites; and several coatings were developed be
specifically for use on composites. The most promising of these are discussed in
Section 7.3.2.5.
7.3.2.3 Problems Joints at
In addition to lightning currents causing direct effects by entering or
flowing in composite materials, these same currents may also cause damage at
the composite--for example, a place where the the places where they leave
original panel is joined to another one or to substructure such as ribs and spars.
in Two basic methods of joining composites are in use. One of these is bonding,
which the composite is joined (glued) with an adhesive to another member. The
other method is with joints, in which bolts, rivets, or other mechanical bolted
fasteners are employed to hold two members together.
Unfortunately, most adhesives used in bonding are highly resistive and by
themselves are not able to conduct lightning currents. Instead, arcing occurs
within the adhesive, releasing sufficient gas pressure to make the structure
literally "come unglued." Either the adhesive must be made electrically
conductive or a separate conducting path must be provided to carry lightning
currents across the joint. conductive paint or foil may be able to accomplish A
this if it is necessary only to transfer lightning current from one composite panel
to an adjacent one. But if the composite is also fastened to substructure,
A electrical contact must be made to this substructure as well. metal foil
wrapped around the edge of the composite panel may suffice; however, such a
foil must be held securely to the composite surface so that the magnetic force (a
problem of Figure 7.8) does not cause the foil to pull away. If bolts or fasteners
are used, they may provide the necessary electrical path, whether intentional or
not, but the concentration of current near them may degrade the composite's
strength in this important region.
Relatively little work has yet been accomplished to evaluate the degree of
strength loss caused by lightning currents in composite joints; however, further
research is now in progress. Schneider, Hendricks, and Takashima (Reference
7.24) are studying the effects of lightning currents on typical bonded and bolted
joints of graphite composites, and their preliminary findings show that bonded