mounted on the engine have experienced damage, and no attachment points
have been found other than the flash entry point at a nose or wing tip. Lightning
attachment points on jet tail pipes may be masked by exhaust deposits or simply
be indiscernible because of the high melting temperature of tail pipe metals. If
this is true, the increased volume and temperature of the jumbo jet exhaust may
have become a region of sufficient ionization or weakened dielectric strength to
divert a propagating leader into the exhaust channel or to enable the formation
of outward-propagating streamers from the tail pipe, once the aircraft has been
struck elsewhere by a leader. While this engine exhaust may divert an existing
leader, it seems improbable that it could trigger a flash by itself.
Viewed another way, if the jet engine were leaving behind an ionized
exhaust, it seems probable that an imbalance of charge on the aircraft would
eventually result, even when flying in clear weather. As with P-static charging,
this would raise (or lower) the aircraft potential with respect to its surroundings
and cause static discharging and corona from sharp extremities, causing
interference in radio equipment. It is well established that this does not happen.
2.2.2.2 Effects of Electromagnetic Radiation
Another suggestion has been made that an aircraft's radar may trigger or
divert lightning strikes. This possibility was also investigated by Schaeffer and
2.18), Weinstock (Reference who show that the transmitted power level of
microwave radiation necessary to produce an electric field capable of ionizing air
lo6 x watts (W), which is far greater than that available from is about 6.7
aircraft radars. They also point out that a radar would not be designed to ionize
air because the energy required would reduce transmitted beam energy and
because ionized air would cause an undesired radar return signal.
no Aircraft lightning-strike incident reports also show evidence of radar or
EMR other having been involved in the lightning-strike formation. There are
cases in which radomes are punctured, but clearly these are simple cases of
dielectric breakdown of the plastic radome material, with flash termination on
some airframe-grounded object inside the radome or on the radar antenna itself.
The punctures have occurred whether or not the radar set was turned on. The
addition of conductive diverter strips to the outside of the radome usually
prevents these punctures by enabling lightning flashes to attach directly to a
diverter.
Swept Strokes 2.3
a After the aircraft has become part of completed flash channel, the
ensuing stroke and continuing currents which flow through the channel may
persist for up to a second or more. Essentially, the channel remains in its original