CHAPTER 2
AIRCRAFT LIGHTNING ATTACHMENT PHENOMENA
Introduction 2.1
Statistics on lightning strikes reported by aircraft pilots seem to indicate
a that no aircraft is likely to receive more than one or two lightning strikes in
year but that some types of aircraft receive more strikes than others. Compared
with exposure to other hazards, such as hail, birds, and turbulence, which are
also encountered during flight, the exposure of aircraft to lightning strikes seems
relatively infrequent. Because of this relatively low incidence, inclusion of
lightning protective measures in the designs of some aircraft has been considered
unnecessary. The question also arises: If lightning strikes do in fact occur
infrequently, can they be avoided altogether? Because some types of aircraft
seem to experience more than their "fair share" of lightning strikes, a related
question also arises: Why are some aircraft more vulnerable than others? To
answer these questions a considerable amount of research on the effects of such
factors as aircraft size, engine exhaust, and microwave radar emissions on
lightning-strike formation has been undertaken during the past few years. Much
of this research has been aimed at answering the question of whether or not an
aircraft can in fact produce its own lightning strike, or or if it static discharge,
an impending flash from a nearby cloud. While some of the findings can trigger
of are as yet inconclusive, others have provided definite answers to some these
questions. In this chapter we summarize what has been learned about the
aircraft's influence on lightning-strike occurrence and dispel some other
misconceptions about this phenomenon. In succeeding chapters we examine how
other factors, such as flight and weather conditions, affect lightning strikes and
conclude why it is important that lightning protection be incorporated into all
new aircraft designs.
2.2 Aircraft Influence on Flash Formation
the beginning of lightning-flash formation, when a stepped-leader At
propagates outward from a cloud charge center, the ultimate destination of the
flash at an opposite charge center in another cloud or on the ground has not yet
been determined. The difference of potential which exists between the
stepped-leader and the opposite charge center(s) establishes an electrostatic force
field between them, represented by imaginary equipotential surfaces. They are
shown as lines in the two-dimensional drawing of Figure 2.1. The field intensity,
commonly expressed in kilovolts per meter, is greatest where equipotential
surfaces are closest together. It is this field that is available to ionize air and form
the conductive spark which is the leader. Because the direction of electrostatic
force is normal to the equipotentials and strongest where they are closest
together, the leader is most likely to progress toward the most intense field
regions.
If an aircraft happens to be in the neighborhood, it will assume the