Generally, at least one of these thermal resistances may be determined from the
manufacturer'σ data sheet.
The accuracy of the damage constant as determined from either the
junction capacitance or the junction thermal resistance is somewhat limited.
Table 16.3 (Reference 16.8) gives some estimate of the accuracy within which
the damage constant can be calculated.
16.6.5 Oscillatory Waveforms
Equation 16.6 is based on the assumption that the applied voltage,
current, and power waves are rectangular in shape. While actual transients are
very seldom rectangular, it is possible to derive equivalent rectangular pulses for
more common types of transients. One such type of transient typically
encountered is the damped oscillatory wave. Based on multiple pulse studies by
Wunsch and others (References 16.9 and 16. lo), it can be assumed that device
damage wilI occur, if at all, during the first half cycle of α damped sine wave.
Therefore, the lower amplitude cycles may be neglected. Two cases may be
considered, one in which one of the half cycles of the transient does not exceed
the reverse breakdown voltage of the junction, Figure 16.6 (Reference 16.1 I),
and one in which the reverse breakdown voltage is exceeded, Figure 16.7
(Reference 16.12). In either case, one of the half cycles will bias the junction in
α forward direction. Treating first the case in which the reverse breakdown
voltage is not exceeded (Figure 16.6), the rectangular wave of the same peak
V,, amplitude, and producing the same probability of damage as the sine wave,
has α duration rP
where
of the sine wave. If the transient does exceed the reverse breakdown voltage, the
duration of the equivalent transient depends upon the fraction of the time that
the oscillatory transient does exceed the reverse breakdown voltage. The
of by duration the equivalent rectangular wave is given the expression
("ε)
. I )'
(+) Tp = Ts
- I cos
This expression is shown plotted in Figures 16.8 (Reference 16.13) and 16.9
4). For oscillatory transients whose initial amplitude consider- (Reference 16.1
ably exceeds the reverse breakdown voltage of the junction, Equation 16.19