Induced voltages will also appear two or more wires or shields at between
the probe end, but any one of these wire-to-wire voltages will usually be less
than the voltage between either conductor and the airframe because the area
between wires in α cable bundle is usually less than the area between any one of
them and the airframe.
The routing of the fuel probe wires, therefore, has α lot to do with how
much induced voltage appears at apparatus inside fuel tanks. Since fuel tanks are
often completely enclosed with metallic walls which are electrically bonded and
well sealed, the magnetic fields from lightning (or any other source) are likely to
be lowest inside the tanks. Thus, wires that must eventually enter the tanks
should be routed through them from the start. Newman, Robb, and Stahmann,
11 V, or less, in the fuel quantity probe for example, have measured up to
α KC-135 wing fuel tank (Reference 6.64) through which circuits routed inside
50 kA strokes with α 50 kA/ps rate of rise were being conducted. This voltage
at α severe stroke amplitude of 200 would extrapolate to α maximum of 44 V
kA. Plumer (Reference 6.65) measured up to 4 in α fuel probe circuit routed V
inside the tanks of an F-89J wing. The simulated lightning current in this case
was 40 kA, with α rate of rise of 8 kA/ps. From these results Plumer predicted
V that α 200 kA, 100 kA/ps lightning stroke would induce 185 in the same
circuit. At the time these measurements were made, most researchers looked for
induced voltages of the same duration as that of the lightning current and paid
little attention to other signals, suspected to be "noise," appearing within the
first microsecond of an induced voltage trace on an oscilloscope. These "noise"
signals, however, often had higher amplitudes than the more familiar, longer
duration voltages considered to be authentic. With the advent of better
instrumentation, these high-frequency voltages became known to be legitimate,
induced perhaps by the higher frequency traveling wave currents that may
appear in the airframe as α result of the mechanism described in Chapter 8,
Section 8.2. Thus, higher voltages than those reported by Newman and Plumer,
may in fact be induced in fuel quantity probe circuits, although the literature
shows no recent measurements of induced voltages in fuel tank electrical circuits
to establish what the amplitudes of these voltages might actually be.
If it is not possible to route wiring inside the fuel tank, it may be routed
6.41; outside of α tank as pictured in Figures 6.30 and but, if this is done, great
care must be taken to minimize the amount of magnetic flux that may link these
wires or their shields. This precaution is particularly pertinent for wings where
wires are routed within leading and trailing edges, which are often exposed to
higher magnetic field levels than Asewhere. Fiberglass has replaced aluminum in
some leading edge skins, and, in some aircraft, control surface openings allow
magnetic flux to penetrate directly to the aft wing spar, along which electrical
cables are often routed.
If fuel system wiring must be routed outside of the tanks, there are several
methods that can be used to control induced voltages, often to levels far below
those required to cause α spark at α fuel probe. These involve routing
improvements, grounding of the shields to the airframe at both ends, and use of