the research programs just discussed. While not all of the answers to
lightning-related vent flame questions are in hand, a number of important
conclusions and protection considerations can be drawn from the research.
As 1. of this writing there has been no positive evidence that a natural
lightning strike ever ignited a vent effluent ona transport-type aircraft, although
there have been several in-flight explosions after lightning has struck wing tips at
places within a meter or so of the vent outlet.
2. For ignition to occur, a lightning-type arc must attach directly to the
edge of a vent outlet or within a few centimeters of it, or must be swept over a
vent outlet. Neither of these situations has been reported to date. Most aircraft
vent outlets are located in conformance with FAA Advisory Circular AC 20-53
(Reference 6.24). This guideline says that vent outlets should not be located in
or 2 and defines these zones by the "18 inch" rule, 1 lightning-strike Zone
which, if interpreted literally, are as illustrated in Figure 6.1 ](a). If the points
defined by the "fore and aft line passing through the Zone 1 forward projection
points of stroke attachment" are taken to be at the outboard tips only, then
Zone 1 is restricted to a small area and Zone 2 may extend inboard only a little
18 inches (0.46 m) from the tip. If the tip is sharp, strikes are indeed more than
1 would be limited to a small most likely to attach only to the edge, and Zone
distance (several centimeters or so) inboard. However, if the tip has a large radius
a I , it is prudent to utilize of curvature, such as that illustrated in Figure 6.1
more conservative interpretation and consider Zone 1 to extend inboard the full
18 inches (0.46 m).
If the radius of curvature of the outboard tip is greater than 18 inches, the
lightning attachment points will be even more scattered over the surface, and
Zone 1 should be considered to extend inward a distance equal to the actual
radius of curvature.
When nonmetallic skin materials are used on the wing tips, it is probable
that direct strikes will occur to the edge of the outermost metallic element, such
as a rib or spar, instead of to the nonmetallic tip itself. Therefore, Zone 1 must
18 inches include not only the nonmetallic tip but also an area extending
inboard from the outermost metallic structure, as shown in Figure 6.1 l(b). If
there is a metallic diverter assembly mounted on the outboard edge of a
nonmetallic tip, this diverter instead of the outboard rib (for example) may
I receive strikes and thus permit Zone to begin at the outboard edge, as in
Figure 6.1 ](a). Metal diverter bars intended for this purpose have been installed
on nonmetallic wing tips, and subsequently failed, however, in their intended
purpose, with strikes circumventing the diverter and either puncturing the
nonmetallic skin or attaching to an exposed metallic item inboard of the
diverter. The most common reason for this failure is that the diverter has been
coated with a tough, erosion-resistant paint or coating. Moreover, most of these
paints also have good electrical insulating capability, which inhibits formation of
the electrical streamers necessary for the diverter to intercept oncoming
lightning flashes. Greater reliability for a diverter intended to protect a
nonmetallic tip assembly or to enable location of avent outlet farther outboard
132