7.1 straps intended to carry lightning currents are presented in Figure 1. The
basic rules to follow are these:
Use conductors with sufficient cross-sectional area to conduct
intended lightning current action integral
Keep bond straps as short and close to the air gap length as possible
Avoid bends of more than or other features that result in 45",
reversal of current directions
Avoid all sharp turns
If two or more parallel straps are used, separate them sufficiently
30 cm or more) to minimize magnetic force effects. (usually
Of course, the above rules should also be followed not only for bond straps but
for any other structural element that must carry lightning currents.
Because of weight limitations, the strength and rigidity of some metallic
components, such as wing tips, flaps, and ailerons, may not be sufficient to resist
deformation as a result of the magnetic forces from lightning currents
concentrated in these extremities. Such deformations will not normally impair
safety of flight, but they may require repairs or replacement. Normally, only
severe lightning currents cause this deformation; therefore, increased reinforce-
ment of the extremity, if it were deemed economical, could minimize or prevent
deformation in many cases.
Since determination of magnetic force effects by mathematical analysis for
all but the most elemental geometries is very difficult, laboratory tests may
prove the most straightforward and economical way to determine whether or
not magnetic force effects are likely to cause deformation of prospective
structures. For such tests, simulated lightning strokes in accordance with the
(Reference SAE criteria of Lightning Test Waveforms and Techniques 7.9)
should be passed through the component being evaluated.
Arcing across Bonds, Hinges, and Joints 7.2.5
Basically, the riveted skins and substructures found in conventional
aluminum aircraft are adequate to safely conduct lightning currents through the
aircraft, and, aside from the special considerations relating to fuel tank areas
6, discussed in Chapter no provisions need be made to improve this conductivity
for lightning protection purposes. Even with the profusion of electrically
insulating primers and wet sealers now used to coat joined surfaces, the great
number of rivets or fasteners needed to meet mechanical strength requirements
provides the necessary electrical path between mating surfaces. This generaliza-
tion has proved to be reliable even when the fasteners and holes themselves have
been coated with primers or wet sealants.
If hinges or bearings are located where lightning currents may pass through
2B), them (such as on control surfaces in Zone 1B or they should be able to
safely withstand these currents with no impairment of their function. Otherwise
suitable means should be provided to divert much of the lightning current
around them. In a few cases, passage of lightning currents through some hinges