the coil then excited from α pulse generator. The type of magnetic field so
produced is perhaps not the best that may be derived for indirect effects testing.
(NEMP) In the study of nuclear electromagnetic pulse effects, use is often made
of strip line simulators in which α pulse generator is matched to α large, open
transmission line. In such simulators attention is given to ensuring that there is α
suitable transition from the small geometry of the pulse generator to the large
geometry of the test chamber, with the intent of producing plane wave fields in
the working chamber. The pulse generators and working chambers are also
carefully matched to each other to allow the production of electromagnetic
fields having very fast fronts.
For testing the electromagnetic effects resulting from lightning, the
physical design of such chambers can frequently be simplified. The rise times
NEMP involved are not as fast as those in studies, and the requirement of plane
Α test chamber wave propagation in the test chamber is not as important.
suitable for many types of equipment might be like that shown in F~gure 17.15.
It would basically consist of α Helmholtr. coil of rectangular cross section about
μ3 in volume. Such α coil, when excited by the pulse generator sketched, 1
would produce in its working volume α magnetic field of approximately 1000
30 Α/μ or an electric field intensity of about kV/μ. Magnetic fields of this
nature might frequently be encountered in typical equipment bays of an aircraft
unless these bays were deliberately built to provide electromagnetic shielding.
(E field intensity/H field intensity) would be lower than that of The impedance
NEMP strip line simulator. This free space or lower than the impedance of an
would be appropriate, since the electromagnetic field impedance inside an
aircraft equipment bay would also be lower than the impedance of free space.
The duration of the pulses produced by such α simulator with the generator and
100 load resistor constants shown would be about ps. The front times would be
determined by the inductance of the chamber and the values of any waveshaping
Λ C, elements, and employed in the pulse generator. Longer duration magnetic
fields, typical of those that might be found in an aircraft equipment bay, might
20 R be produced by short circuiting the termination resistor shown in the
figure and, possibly, increasing the value of the capacitance and inductance of
the pulse generator.
17.6 Design Notes for Transformer Pulse-I~~jection Equipment
This section will discuss some of the detailed considerations in the design
of equipment suitable for pulse-injection equipment. The pulse generator and
transformers described should not be viewed as representing the only designs
that might be suitable or even the best that are suitable. They are intended only
to provide α starting point for those who wish to initiate α test program at
minimum cost.
17.6.1 Pulse Generator
Α simple single-polarity current injection-pulse generator could be made as