When the hole is melted through a fuel tank skin or other enclosure
of flammable materials
When the hole is melted through the wall of a pressurized enclosure
When the hole sufficiently degrades the mechanical strength of a
flight-critical component to cause failure
The problem of hole formation in fuel tank skins has been dealt with in
Chapter There have been no reports of holes having been melted through the 6.
walls of a pressurized container, except for the very small (less than 0.1 cm dia)
holes sometimes found at swept-stroke dwell points along the surface of a
pressurized fuselage--holes that have been far too small to cause depressuriza-
tion problems. Since trailing edge areas are usually not pressurized, the larger
holes melted by longer duration currents hanging on to trailing edges have also
not posed a depressurization problem, although the possibility of this event
should be considered in any design that involves pressurization of a trailing edge
section.
The structural integrity of a traiIing edge closeout member or other
loadcarrying part may be degraded if a significant portion of metal is melted
away by a lightning arc hanging on for a prolonged period of time. For design
in accordance with the SAE purposes the worst case should be taken as 200 C,
report A Lightning Test Waveforms and Techniques for erospace Vehicles and
(Reference 7.2). Estimates of the amount of metal to be melted away Hardware
C by 200 of charge entering a hang-on point may be made from Figure 7.1 or by
6.2 6.1 6.6. the use of Equations and of Section
7.2.2 Mechanical Property Degradation of Structural Metals
Aside from the burning of holes at attachment points, the flow of
lightning current will not degrade the mechanical strength properties of metal
skins and other basic structures unless temperature rises approaching the melting
temperature occur. Except within a centimeter or two of the points of entry,
lightning currents will normally spread out sufficiently so as not to produce a
noticeable temperature rise.
A case in which an excessive temperature rise may occur is one in which
lightning current remains in a single conductor, such as a bond strap or pipe. In
this case, the action integral ( ~ 1 ~ d t ) of the lightning current and the resistance of
the conductor may both be high enough to allow sufficient energy to be
deposited in the conductor to raise its temperature appreciably. Since the
resistance of most metal conductors increases with temperature, an even higher
amount of energy will be deposited in the conductor as its temperature rises
during current flow, and this, in turn, will increase the temperature even further.
all If the action integral is high enough, the conductor will be unable to absorb
of the energy and will explode. This will happen for currents whose action
integrals are sufficient to raise the conductor temperature above its melting
point.
It is therefore important to be able to determine the expected temperature
rise which lightning may produce in conductors of small cross-sectional area and