instrument capable of warning pilots of an impending lightning strike and
providing information to the pilot for use in avoidance. Most such instruments
are based on the principle of detecting the ambient electric field which would
exist when a lightning flash is imminent (Reference 3.24). None of these
instruments have been successfully tested in an aircraft, and because of the
apparent wide variation of electric field magnitudes and directions which may
exist at the aircraft surface just before a strike occurs, the prospects for success
by the problems of field seem remote. The situation is further complicated
interpretation and translation into advisory information to aid the pilot in
deciding on an avoidance maneuver.
Perhaps the most effective warning of imminent strikes available to flight
crews is that which is readily available-the buildup of static discharging and (at
night) St. Elmo's Fire (corona). Static discharging causes interference (insta-
bility) in Low Frequency Automatic Direction Finding (LF-ADF) indicators, or
audible "hash" in most communications receivers. St. Elmo's Fire is visible at
night as a bluish glow at aircraft extremities where the discharging is occurring.
Pilot responses to Lightning strikes (which may also be called or static discharges
vary. Typical answers by pilots of one airline (Reference electrical discharges)
3.25) to the question "Do you have any recommendations for avoiding electrical
discharges?" were as follows:
"From cruise speed, a reduction of 25% to 30% in airspeed will
often allow the static buildup to stabilize at a lower maximum and
dissipate rather than discharge. These buildups are generally
VHF accompanied by a buzz-type static on high frequency] [very
and {automatic direction finding] and a random swinging of ADF
I ADF ADF needles though have observed the needles to hold a the
steady error of up to 90O as the static level stabilized at or near its
peak, generally just prior to the discharge or beginning of dissipa-
" tion.
"Climb and descend through the freezing level as quickly as
" possible.
"Avoid all precipitation. know of no way to predict accurately I
where a discharge wiN occur."
"Slow down to minimum safe speed, change altitude to avoid
temperature of 20 ro 35 OF OF."
'Not without excessive detour, both route and altitude."