The disadvantages of forward-conducting diodes include the following:
They are not bilateral. For protection of both polarities, two diodes
in parallel must be used. Some vendors supply dipolar diodes for
protection purposes.
Conduction may occur on normal signals with attendant signal-
clipping and frequency-multiplication effects. Diodes must be used
in series to raise voltage levels.
They have relatively high capacitance.
Nonlinear Resistors 15.6.4
This category includes nonlinear resistors (varistors) that may be character-
ized by the expression
K V ~ I =
K where Nand are device constants dependent on the varistor material.
Varistors may be constructed of silicon carbide, selenium, or metal oxide.
15.1). This section will concentrate on the metal oxide varistor (Reference
The advantages of metal oxide-based nonlinear resistors include the
following:
They are bilateral devices.
They are of small size.
They are easily mounted. One common configuration is very similar
in appearance to α disk ceramic capacitor.
They are self-extinguishing. When applied voltage drops below the
voltage for which the device is rated, they conduct very little
current.
They have an inherently fast responsellow-impulse ratio.
They provide high power-handling capability. The current- and
energy-handling capability is second only to certain types of spark
gaps. This device gives α higher ratio of energy absorbed to energy
reflected than conventional gaps give. Morever, the energy is
absorbed throughout the bulk of the material and not con- is
Π-N centrated in α narrow junction.
The disadvantages of nonlinear resistors include the following:
They have low impedance and high capacitance. The zinc oxide
varistor is characterized by high-shunt capacity, limiting its use to
1 frequencies below MHz. While it has α much higher idling current
than have either gaps or diodes, the standby power dissipation is in
the milliwatt region and is usually not α significant limitation.
20 30 V. τ o They are not suitable for operating voltages below
Operating volt~ge is proportional to material thickness. Good surge
protection of low-voltage circuits would require an impractically
thin piece of material.