13.4 Multiple Conductors and Shields
If there are multiple conductors in the core, each conductor will develop
nearly the same voltage between that conductor and the shield. This holds true
whether the conductor is located adjacent to the shield or in the center of the
bundle of conductors comprising the core. Accordingly, the voltage between any
pair of conductors in the core will be small. Present analytical tools do not seen1
of sufficient accuracy to predict with any assurance the magnitude of line-line
voltages; they are best determined by actual measurement. Line-line voltages are
much more strongly influenced by load impedances to which the conductors are
connected than by the position of the conductors within an overall shield.
13.4.1 Physical Phenomena
One very common situation involving multiple conductors within an
overall shield is a configuration in which a shielded conductor is itself contained
in an overall shield. Figure 13.22 shows such a condition and shows some of the
basic considerations with which one must deal in order to predict the response
of this two-cable network to a noise current flowing on the outer shield. The
total circuit response is a combination of the internal field of the outer shield
and the internal field of the inner shield plus the coupling from the internal field
of the inner shield to the signal conductor contained within the inner shield.
These internal fields are created by noise current flowing on the outer shield plus
noise current flowing on the inner shield. The noise current on the inner shield
depends upon the internal field of the outer shield and on the impedance
presented to signals traveling on the outer surface of the inner shield and
returning along the inner surface of the outer shield.
The most important factor concerning this latter impedance is whether or
not the internal shield is grounded at both ends. Figure 13.32(b) shows the
internal shield connected to the outer shield at the left-hand end and a switch
would allow connection to be made between the shields at the right-hand that
end. It is furthermore assumed that the impedance of any connection between
shields is zero, a situation that definitely may not be true in practice.
If the inner shield is not grounded at the right-hand end, the inteinal field
of the outer shield (Ei-os) produces a voltage difference, Vis.os, at the right-hand
end of the cable. Neglecting the distributed capacitances between the inner
shield and the outer shield, the noise current on the inner shield, Iis, is then zero.
If the inner shield is connected to the outer shield at both ends and the switch,
S, is closed, the voltage difference between the two ends of the cable is reduced
to zero. The internal field of the outer shield, however, will induce a circulating
current, Iis, between the inner shield and the outer shield. The magnitude of this
current is governed by the strength of the field Ei-,, and the impedance around
the loop between the inner shield with return on the outer shield. This
impedance, at least for many cables, is predominantly inductive. The waveshape
Iis, of the current on the inner shield, is then proportional to the time integral of
the voltage developed along the inner surface of the outer shield. The current on