With regard to aircraft the matter may be academic. Aircraft are struck
underneath clouds by clear-cut cloud-to-ground flashes and by flashes within
clouds. Based on the damage observed, the peak current sometimes is very high.
cloud-to-ground Whether the high current was associated with the upper end of a
flash or with a true intracloud flash makes little difference.
In temperate regions about two-thirds of all flashes are intracloud flashes.
In tropical regions, where there is more lightning activity, the ratio is higher.
1.6 Measured Characteristics of the Lightning Flash
Lightning flashes are quite variable from one to another. Peak currents,
total duration, waveshapes, number of strokes in the flash, charge transferred,
etc., may all vary over wide limits, and only in general terms can one find a
correlation between different parameters. Data on the characteristics of lightning
are best presented in statistical terms, the mode that will be used in the
following sections.
One item that needs to be emphasized is that virtually all the data on
lightning comes from measurements made at ground level, and these measure-
ments may be influenced by the growth of an upward leader. Very few
measurements have been made of the amplitude and waveshape of lightning
currents passing through aircraft. Most of the measurements that have been
made were of strokes with lower peak currents and longer times to crest than
those often observed at ground level. In part this may be explained by chance
and in part by the fact that many of the flashes intercepted may have been
intracloud flashes and not cloud-to-ground flashes. As noted earlier, intracloud
flashes often lack the well-defined high-amplitude return stroke of cloud-to-
ground flashes.
The best summary of the statistical characteristics of lightning is that
1.20). compiled by Cianos and Pierce (Reference They observed that many of
these characteristics were nearly linear when plotted as a log-normal distribution.
They then made a judgment as to the linear distribution that was the best fit to
the experimentally observed data. The figures that follow are reproduced from
their report.
I ) 1 .I 8 1.2 Figure (Reference shows data on the peak current amplitude in
lightning strokes. Regarding the damage that may be caused by lightning, this is
one of the most important parameters. There are two curves shown, one for the
first return stroke in a flash and one for subsequent return strokes. The first
return stroke is generally of the highest amplitude. For engineering analysis,
Cianos and Pierce have determined that subsequent return strokes may be
represented as half the amplitude of the first return stroke. Marked on the curves
98% are the amplitudes corresponding to the and probabilities. 2, 10, 50,90,
The peak value of the current is related to the explosive, or blasting, effect
of lightning. It is also relative to the maximum voltage developed across ground
resistance and hence to the risk of side flashes occurring in the vicinity of objects
struck (or, related to the maximum voltage developed across loading resistors
struck (or, related to the maximum voltage developed across bonding resistance
and hence to the possibility of sparking at structural interfaces).
20