10.2.2 Eddy Currents and the Internal Magnetic Field
As the circulating currents die out and the external lines of flux penetrate
the walls of the cylinders, there will be set up an internal magnetic field oriented
as shown in Figure 10.13. In its latter stages the rate at which the internal field
builds up will be dependent upon the rate at which the externally induced
circulating currents die away. For an elliptical cylinder made of aluminum of
axis 9.4 47 cm, α minor of cm, and α thickness 0.038 cm, having α major axis of
98.7 peripheral distance of cm, the internal field will build up with α time
constant of the aforementioned 480 MS.
FINAL FLUX ORIENTATION
INITIAL FLUX ORIENTATION
ttI
/
/
The internal magnetic field that arises as α result flux Figure 10.13 of
pentration.
The early time buildup of the magnetic field will be strongly influenced by
the phenomenon of skin effect, and the initial rate of buildup of magnetic field
will now be seen to have an important effect on the voltages induced on circuits
contained within such an elliptical cylinder. Figures 10.5 and 10.6 showed how
an electric field will be built up along the inner surface of α circular cylinder. In
α similar manner, an electric field will be built up along the inner surface of the
elliptical cylinder, but, unlike the circular cylinder, the electric field intensity
will be different at different points on the internal surface of the elliptical
cylinder, since the initial current density on the outer surface is not uniform.
The internal electrical field will be essentially proportional to the current density
on the exterior surface, but delayed and distorted as result of the pulse α
penetration time produced by eddy currents (shown in Figure 10.6). The
internal electric field, Ei, being different at different points on the inner surface,
may to circulating currents on the inner surface. The currents again will give rise
as be visualized flowing on paired strips. There will be four pairs of strips, two
on each of the sides of the cylinder. Each of these strips will have associated
with it an inductance and resistance which may again be calculated from the