There is no hard-and-fast rule for the number of fasteners per meter of
joint (density) which are necessary to avoid sparking. After all, a single No. 8
AWG copper or aluminum wire is capable of conducting 200 kA, lo6 A ~ - S x 2
a strokes, so single fastener of this or larger diameter would also, by itself, be
capable of conducting this much current. Any sparking usually occurs at the
interfaces between the fastener and surrounding metal, and the occurrence of
such sparking depends on other physical characteristics, such as skin metal
thickness, surface coatings, and fastener tightness. Tests in which simulated
lightning currents are conducted through the joint should always be made on
of samples joints involving new materials or designs. The type and amount of
lightning current to be applied for these tests and diagnostics to be used, should
be as described in Lightning Test Waveforms and Technques for Aerospace
for Zone 3. Vehicles and Hardware
The foregoing relates to the case where the joint is in Zone and must 3
conduct some portion of the lightning current, but other zones can be, and are
likely to be, struck directly by the lightning arc itself. In direct and swept-stroke
(1 A, 2A) and hang-on zones (IB, 2B), it is possible for the lightning arc to zones
attach directly to a single fastener or rivet. If it persists, the hot arc may melt or
(Reference 6.60) shows an otherwise damage surrounding skin. Figure 6.35
1 example of the damage that can be done at such a place. Here, a cm-diameter
rivet head and much of its surrounding aluminum skin have melted away. If an
arc persists long enough at such a spot, it may melt completely through the skin,
beyond the inside member. Such penetration occurred at the point shown in
Figure 6.35. The danger involved may require that, if ignitable fuel vapors can
swept-stroke zone (]A, 2A), the skin may have to be exist beneath any joint in a
thicker than that required on the basis of swept-stroke dwell times only; or some
other provision may have to be made to prevent complete meltthrough near a
rivet.
Some other guidelines which should be noted in designing integral tank
joints are as follows:
1. in joints which may have to carry lightning Avoid use of anodizing
currents. Anodizing is usually applied to prevent corrosion and results in a hard
oxide surface which is nonconductive and difficult to break down at less than
about 300 V. Thus, when breakdown eventually does occur, the resulting spark
will be more energetic than if a poorer insulator were present. The best coating
of all for lightning protection is, of course, coating. no
2. because lightning Design short, direct lightning current paths flow
currents want to flow in straight, direct paths between entry and exit points on
the aircraft. Voltages which may cause sparking will build up wherever diversions
in these paths exist. The diversions through the fasteners and stringer of Figure
6.34 are acceptable. More extended paths may not be.
3. to confirm the adequacy of Do not depend on resistance measurements
lightning current conductivity in a joint. The inductance of the lightning current
flow path through the joint plays an equally important part, but this inductance
a microhenry) and difficult to measure. is rather small (a few hundredths of
Resistance measurements (ac or dc) may be useful as a production quality
166