Flame-Sprayed Aluminum
An equal weight of flamesprayed aluminum offers approximately the
same protection as that of aluminum foil. It has sometimes been difficult to
control the thickness of flame-sprayed coatings, a phenomenon that could create
inconsistencies in the protection afforded by this type of coating, but
flame-sprays may be easier to apply to some contoured surfaces than are foils.
Diverter Straps and Foil Strips
One might wonder if the metal diverter straps or foil strips recommended
for protection of fiberglass in Section 7.3.1.2 are also applicable for advanced
external composites. As discussed in that section, these devices provide an
conductor from which a streamer may originate, reaching an approaching leader
before a streamer from an internal conductor has a chance to puncture the
fiberglass wall. The electrical conductivity of the strap, in contrast to the
surrounding nonconductive fiberglass, is depended upon to assure that this
streamer will come from the strip and not from some other place.
Advanced composites, of course, have electrical conductivity-- some
enough to supply the few milliamperes of current needed for a streamer. Thus, a
metal diverter on a poorly conducting surface is not nearly as effective as it is on
a nonconducting surface. This fact has been demonstrated repeatedly on nose
radomes protected by diverters but with partially conductive antistatic paints
EM1 also applied to their outside surfaces to reduce from P-static charge
buildups on the radome surface. Streamers have occasionally initiated from the
antistatic paint instead of from a diverter, causing the ensuing stroke to attach to
the painted surface and destroy a large part of the radome while finding its own
path to metal structure.
Lubin and Dastin (Reference 7.33) report that, in laboratory tests, closely
spaced aluminum foil strips did keep strikes from attaching to the boron
composite surface of a horizontal stabilizer. Their tests--which are the most
extensive yet reported of conducting strips on a composite--showed that 2.54
(1 cm in) wide, 0.2 mm (0.008 in) thick aluminum foil strips had to be spaced
(2.5 6.35 cm in) of each other to keep strikes from hitting the boron within
(2 6.35 composite surface between them. A simdar spacing was necessary for cm
half in) wide strips that were as thick. Wider spacings permitted some strikes to
terminate on the boron composite surface.
It is likely that such strips would not work as well as this over a graphite
composite, which is more conductive than boron. The performance of strips on
either composite, of course, would be enhanced if the composite surface were
covered with a dielectric (insulating) material that would inhibit streamer
formation. system in which a dielectric film is first applied to the entire A
composite surface, with the conducting strips then applied over the dielectric, is
likely to work best, since this would also help to keep lightning currents in the
foil strips from entering the composite. No thorough tests of such a system have
been reported, however.
247