Orient the diverters as nearly possible in the line of flight so that as 1 .
flashes which originally strike the diverter can reattach farther aft on
the same diverter as the aircraft moves forward.
2. While the fore-aft arrangement recommended in Guideline 1 is
desirable for reattachment purposes, an adequate path must also be
provided for Iightning current to be conducted into the airframe.
This requirement usually calls for some of the diverters to be
oriented perpendicularly to the line of flight. Examples of preferred
arrangements incorporating both of these guidelines are shown in
Figure 7.20.
The surface flashover voltage from any point over the external 3.
surface to the nearest diverter strap must be less than the maximum
voltage required to puncture the skin and attach to α conducting
maximum object beneath. Thus, the diverter must be within α
from α point on the skin directly opposite the displacement distarzce
as follows: enclosed conductor. This relationship is defined
Maximum
Skin puncture voltage (kV) <
displacement (7.19)
(cm) distance Surface flashover voltage (kV/cm)
This criterion should be met for lightning voltage stresses of either
polarity applied at up to 1000 kV/ps rate of rise.
The maximum voltage drop from the original attachment point to 4.
any other point on α lightning arc swept aft directly above α
nonconducting surface must not exceed the skin puncture voltage
from that point through the skin to any conducting objects inside.
The maximum arc voltage drop will occur during α restrike
formation in α multiple-stroke flash and can be assumed to be equal
to or less than the free air breakdown voltage, or about 500 kV/μ of
α point directly arc length. Since this voltage will be applied from
above the surface, instead of from an approaching leader, this
swept-stroke environment may be more severe than one produced by
an initial strike.
5. The inductive voltage rise, VL, along any diverter segment carrying
be lightning-stroke currents to conducting structure must less than
the skin puncture voltage between the diverter and the nearest
conducting object inside the structure. The inductive voltage rise,
VL, may be expressed as follows:
Λ diverter segment inductance (henries) = where
IL lightning current (amperes) =
τ time (seconds) =
Λ may be assumed to be pH/μ for most diverter In practice, 1