fibers, but the mechanisms differ for these two types of composites. The current
flow processes and degradation mechanisms for each type are reviewed in the
following paragraphs.
7.3.2.1 Boron Composites
Because of initial interest in boron composites for aircraft structural
applications and because of their higher resistivities, the lightning current
degradation mechanisms for boron were studied first. Fassell, Penton, and
Plumer (Reference 7.19) began with a study of the degradation process in a
single boron filament. These filaments were formed by deposition of boron on a
0.13 mm (0.0005 in) diameter tungsten filament called the The boron substrate.
sheath, which provides the filament's strength, was about 1.3 mm (0.005 in) in
diameter. The tungsten substrate is a resistive conductor, but the resistance of
the boron is much greater by several orders of magnitude. Thus, electric currents
entering a boron composite will want to flow in the tungsten substrates instead
of in the boron. Tungsten has a positive temperature coefficient of resistivity,
which means that, as its temperature increases, its resistivity increases as well,
and it becomes even hotter as current flows. When temperature rise is calculated
as a function of current action integral by Equation 7.5, the temperature rise
curve of Figure 7.33 results. The quantity $12dt is, of course, equal to the unit
energy dissipation in the substrate (per ohm of resistance) and is dependent
solely upon the lightning current amplitude and waveform.
Figure 7.33 shows that very little temperature rise occurs as $12dt is
increased to 20 x A2-s. However, increases beyond this value cause
A2-s result in moderate temperature increases, and increases beyond 100 x
extreme temperature rise. Fassell, Penton, and Plumer injected currents beyond
100 x A2-s into single filaments and found them to become severely
mechanical strength. Correspondingly, filaments exposed cracked and to lose all
to pulses with $ ~ ~ values of d t 100 x lo6 A2s or less exhibited little or no
evidence of degradation. The mechanism of filament failure was found to be
transverse and radial cracking of the boron sheath, presumably caused by
excessive thermal expansion of the tungsten substrate. (Examples of cracked
filaments are shown in Figure 4.12.) Thus, the calculated temperature rise is a
significant indication of filament failure onset.
In comparison to natural lightning currents, it is noted that when
distributed over several thousand filaments, a stroke of several thousand amperes
may provide only A of current per filament. If this current exists for ps, it 1 100
will indeed provide an $12dt of 100 x A2-s in a single filament; if this
x current exists for 20 ps, it will provide an jI2dt of 20 A2-s in a single
filament, etc.
WhiIe the previous example illustrates the manner in which lightning
currents may cause mechanical property degradation of composite materials, it
also illustrates the relatively flat region in which increasing dues of $ ~ ~ do d t
rise. not result in corresponding increases in temperature For protection design,
230