15.5 Through Improvement Circuit Design
One of the most important considerations in the control of lightning-
related interference through proper circuit design lies in the fundamental
observation that a device with a broad band width can intercept more noise
energy than can a narrow band-width device. Some of the considerations that
derive from this observation are shown in Figure 15.6. The noise produced by
lightning has a broad frequency spectrum. Considering for the moment only the
spectrum of the lightning current, the observation is frequently made that most
of the energy associated with the lightning current is contained in the
20 low-frequency region, below 10 or kHz. Before any sense of security is
derived from that observation, it should be remembered that equipment is
damaged or caused to malfunction in accordance with the total amount of
energy intercepted. In a lightning flash there may be plenty of energy in the
megahertz and multimegahertz region to cause interference. The energy that is
available for damage or interference may well be concentrated certain in
frequency bands by the characteristic response of the aircraft or the wlring
within the aircraft.
Without reference to any specific frequency regions, however, the energy
spectrum of the lightning-generated interference on electrical wiring within an
receptor with a broad pass band, shown aircraft will still be a broad spectrum. A
in Figure 15.6(a), will inherently collect more energy than will a receptor with
narrow pass band, shown in Figure 15.6(b). The narrower the pass band, the
better. In this respect analog circuits have an inherent advantage over digital
circuits, since a narrow-pass band digital circuit is almost a contradiction in
If possible, circuits should not have a pass band that includes dc, shown in terms.
Figure 15.6(c), because, when dc is excluded, the circuits will inherently be able
to reject more of the energy associated with the flow of current through
resistance of the structure.
The studies of types of interference produced in aircraft by the flow of
lightning current have shown that the lightning energy excites oscillatory
frequencies on aircraft wiring, particularly ~f the wiring is based on a single-point
ground concept. Those characteristic frequencies have tended to be in the range
of several hundred kilohertz to a few megahertz. If at all possible, the pass bands
of electronic equipment should not include these frequencies, as does the
hypothetical pass band shown on Figure 15.6(d). Higher or lower pass bands
would inherently be better than the one shown. As an extreme example, shown
in Figure 15.6(e), fiber optic signal transmission operating in the infrared reglon
avoids the frequency spectrum associated with lightning-generated interference
almost completely.
Basic considerations about circuit design and signal transmission are shown
in Figure 15.7. First, as shown on Figure 15.7(a), signal circuits should avoid the
use of the aircraft structure as a return path. If the structure is used as a return
path, the resistively generated voltage drops will be included in the path between
transmitting and receiving devices. On the other hand, signal transmission over a
twisted-pair circuit with signal grounds isolated from the aircraft structure tend