(see Reference 6.25) for the particular lightning-strike zone in which the jettison
or drain pipe is located.
6.6 Hot Spot and Hole Formation in Integral Tank Skins
Integral tank skins are those in which fuel is in direct contact with the
outside skin of the aircraft. Tanks of this type are commonly found in the wings
of transport and some general aviation aircraft, and in the wings and fuselages of
modern fighter aircraft. External fuel tanks of the type carried on pylons or
wing tips by military aircraft are also of the integral type.
If integral tank skins are located in direct or swept-lightning attachment
zones, the possibility of hot spot formation or meltthrough of the skin must be
protected against. For the aluminum skins in common use, making the skin thick
enough to dissipate the heat from the lightning arc before the skin can be melted
completely through will assure protection because ignition will occur only with
complete penetration and the resulting arc contact with the fuel vapor. This
phenomenon depends on the fact that the ignition temperature of most
(-1300 hydrocarbon fuel vapors "C) is higher than the melting temperature of
aIuminum (-500 "χ); thus, ignition will not occur unless the skin is melted
completely through to the fuel vapor by the hot Iightning arc, which can reach
upwards of 30 000 On the other hand, the melting temperature of titanium "C.
(-1700 and stainless steel skins is higher than the fuel ignition temperature,
OC)
so that, where this type is concerned, the skin need not be melted completely
thkough for ignition to occur.
The amount of lightning current required to erode or melt holes in aircraft
skins has long been of interest, first, for the purpose of estimating how much
lightning current actually was involved in the damage sustained by aircraft in
flight and, second, for determining the minimum skin thickness required to
prevent melt through of an integral fuel tank skin. Quantitative relationships
by between electric arcs and typical aircraft skin metals were reported in 1949
Hagenguth (Reference 6.26), who made laboratory measurements of the amount
of continuing current necessary to melt holes of various sizes in various metals.
He found α nearly linear relationship to exist between the amount of charge (Q)
delivered to an arc attachment spot and the amount of skin metal melted away.
And, although he reported that "the type of metal appears to have very little
influence" (Reference 6.27) (α fact later found to be untrue), he determined
that the size of α hole melted in α metal sheet of α given thickness can be (-4-0.9
expressed by the following two equations:
Q for Δ(τ<0.089 cm Α 2.53 =
Q(&) -1.54 1 for 0.089<τ<0.38 cm Α = 2 4 5
Α area of hole melted (square millimeters) where =
136