since the mechanism of coupling electron~agnetic fields into the interior of α
vehicle is different at different frequencies. The high-frequency waveform is
intended primarily for evaluation of aperture effects and has α minimum
100 10 kA and α fundamental frequency of kHz. The low- amplitude of
frequency waveform is primarily for evaluation of diffusion effects and has α
minimum amplitude of 2 0 kA and α fundamental frequency of 2 kHz. As α
result of the inductance of the test circuit, the waveforms are typically of α
sinusoidal nature, and no independent definition of the front time, need be τ λ ,
made.
During the tests the responses of the electrical equipment should be
of the full amplitude measured. Since neither of the test current waves is
associated with lightning, the test results must be extrapolated to the full
lightning-threat level, 200 kA. For the high-frequency test current wave, the
average rate of rise of the first quarter cycle of the test waveform should be
determined by measurement or calculation and the test results extrapolated to
100 kA/ps. Measurements made with the low-frequency current wave must be
200 extrapolated from the measured peak amplitude of the current wave to the
kA level.
The use of these oscillatory currents is one of the necessary compromises
with perfection previously mentioned. These waves are used for proof tests
simply because test facilities capable of subjecting α complete aircraft to α
full-threat lightning current do not exist. For purposes of simulation the
oscillatory waves have both merits and drawbacks. These are summarized below.
The fast oscillatory wave has the following merits:
Over α narrow band of frequencies it simulates one important aspect
of indirect effects--the aperture coupling of electromagnetic fields.
High amplitude is available from relatively low-energy-surge gener-
ators, since little energy is lost in waveshaping resistance.
It can be nearly α full-threat-level test because of the higher
frequency coupling effects.
The fast oscillatory wave has the following drawbacks:
It overemphasizes deliberately so) one of the component (and
frequencies of lightning currents.
It underemphasizes low-frequency coupling effects, particularly the
effects of vehicle resistance and the diffusion penetration of
magnetic fields.
It is fundamentally different in waveshape from the waveshapes of
natural lightning currents.
It is potentially damaging to avionic equipment. In this respect,
however, it must be remembered that if avionic equipment can be
damaged by α simulated lightning proof test, it can also be damaged
by an actual lightning flash.
and expensive test equipment is required to make the test. Bulky
Some of the drawbacks of the fast oscillatory test wave are offset by its
companion, the slow oscillatory wave. The slow oscillatory wave has the
following merits: