into the shields of cabIes through coupling transformers are desckibed in Chapter
17.
If actual measurements of coupling effects are not available, the transfer
characteristics of many cables can be estimated from other published literature.
One such summary giving the parameters of coaxial cable shields is shown in
Table 13.1 (Reference 13.9).
1 3.6 Transfer Characteristics of Connectors
The transfer impedance of a cable connector or splice can be represented
by
&
where is the resistance measured across the connector and Mi2 is a mutual
inductance between the external shield circuit and the internal conductors of the
The cable. value of ZT is usually not calculable, but it can be measured by
passing current through a cable sample containing the connector and measuring
the open circuit voltage induced on conductors inside the shield. Some typical
MI 2 values of Ro and have been measured on cable connectors and are listed in
Table 13.2.
The transfer impedance of a connector is a lumped element in the cable
circuit, in contrast to the distributed nature of the transfer impedance of the
cable shield. The effect of leakage through the connector can thus be
represented a discrete voltage source by
where I. is the shield current.
Because most connectors that would be used for shielded cables have
essentially 100% optical coverage, their transfer admittance is usually negligible.
In addition, most bulkhead or panel-mounting connectors are located at points
where the shield voltage is a minimum, so that excitation of the internal
conductors by the transfer admittance is small even the transfer admittance if
itself is not small.
13.7 Shields Grounding of
It should be emphasized that the transfer parameters of Table 13.2 refer
only to the properties of the connector itself. Additional transfer impedances
may be produced by the manner in which the cable shield is connected to the
connector or by the manner in which the cable connector is mounted to a
bulkhead. Even slight inattention to detail may introduce into the circuit
transfer impedances far greater than the impedance of the connector or possibly
A far greater than that of the rest of the cable shield. common treatment of a
shield at a connector is to insulate the shield with tape and connect it to the
back shell through a pigtail. Such treatment is shown in Figure 13.30(a). Equally