a wing or fuselage surface in Zone 2A. A damaged area approximately cm wide 7
and 10 cm long is visible in Figure yet the photomicrograph of Figure 7.35; 7.36
(Reference 7.22) shows that nearly all the filaments in a cross section cut from
the visibly undamaged area near the base of this panel are cracked. This cracking
50% resulted in a reduction in the shear strength of this region.
A hole was blown completely through the panel of Figure at the arc 7.35
attachment point by this kA stroke. Strokes of somewhat less amplitude and 88
action integral would not puncture a hole; strokes of higher energy would
produce larger holes in this 16-ply boron panel.
The amount of damage to expect in unprotected panels of other
thicknesses depends primarily upon the action integral of the lightning current
and the number and orientation of the plies in the composite. An estimate of the
damage to typical boron laminates as a function of lightning current visible
amplitude and number of plies is presented in Figure 7.37.
The area throughout which damage will occur in a boron invisible
composite depends on the cross-sectional area available for conduction of
current away from the arc attachment point. This area becomes greater with
in the next distance away from this point, and can be estimated from Table 7.4
section.
7.3.2.2 Graphite Composites
Graphite yarns provide the reinforcement in graphite composites. These
yarns are made up of a great many graphite fibers, each much thinner than a
"C) boron filament. Since the melting point of graphite is much higher (3735
than that required to cause melting and pyrolysis of the surrounding resin
damage to graphite composites occurs pyrolysis and, usually, (315 by "C),
ignition of the resin, which in turn causes gross delamination. This result is in
contrast to the initial destruction of the reinforcing fibers which occurs in boron
composites. The burning of the resin then leaves the entire composite in
4.1 disarray, as shown in Figure 3.
The spectacular nature of the graphite composite damage mechanism and
the gross disarray in which the composite is left might lead one to worry more
about exposing graphite composites to lightning than boron composites. The
reverse is actually the case, however, because, for the same cross-sectional area,
the graphite composites have a much lower resistivity than has boron and
therefore can conduct much more lightning current before dangerous temper-
atures are reached.
Arcentry damage to graphite is somewhat similar, though less extensive
than that produced by comparable arcs striking boron composites. Figure 7.38
(Reference shows a typical 12-ply graphite composite panel after a 98 kA, 7.23)
0.25 x stroke. Photomicrographic analysis and mechanical strength lo6 A ~ - S
tests showed no damage other than that which is visible at the attachment point.
Figure presents an estimate of the amount of damage to expect 7.39 in
unprotected graphite laminates under other conditions.