CHAPTER 1
THE LIGHTNING ENVIRONMENT
Introduction 1.1
The lightning flash originates with the formation of electrical charge in the
air or, more commonly, clouds. The most common producer of lightning is the
cumulonimbus thundercloud. Lightning, however, can also occur during sand-
storms, snowstorms, and in the clouds over erupting volcanos. Lightning has
even been reported to occur in clear air, though this phenomenon is rare and is
possibly a result of lightning originating in conventional clouds beyond the
observer's field of vision. Lightning originating in sandstorms and volcanic
eruptions is not of serious concern to aircraft, but lightning associated with
snowstorms occurs sufficiently often as to present a problem, not because its
nature is different from lightning associated with thunderstorms but because it is
apt to occur when it is unexpected.
The most common types of lightning are those involving the cloud and
and lightning between charge centers ground, called cloud-to-grou~zd lightning,
This latter is sonletimes erroneously within a cloud, called intracloud lightning.
or True cloud-to-cloud I~glltning called intercloud cloud-ro-cloud lightning.
between isolated cloud centers is possible; however, what appears to be cloud-to-
cloud lightning is often a spectacular manifestation of intracloud discharges.
Most research on lightning has centered on cloud-to-ground l~ghtning;
despite its importance to aircraft operation, much less information on the
characteristics of intracloud lightning than on those of cloud-to-ground lightning
exists, for a variefy of reasons. The first is simply that intracloud lightning,
unlike cloud-to-ground lightning, is largely hidden from direct observation. The
second is that conducting research on the characteristics of lightning is often a
labor of love requiring both extensive apparatus and extreme patience. Observing
lightning from a fixed ground station is rnuch easier and cheaper than observing
lightning from a moving aircraft. The third is that most of the funding for re-
search on lightning has come, directly or indirectly, from those who are con-
cerned with the effects of lightning on electric power transmission and distribu-
tion lines, which are affected only by cloud-to-ground strokes.
The characteristics of lightning are discussed in the sections which follow.
However, much of the material relative to the physics of lightning will be dis-
cloud-to-ground strokes for the reasons cited cussed primarily in terms of
above and because frequently it is difficult to say for any given flash which type
was involved. While aircraft may be involved with any of the three types of
lightning, cloud-to-ground and intracloud lightning flashes are the most common
types. But where aircraft design and operation are of concern, the type of flash
makes little difference.
generalized waveshape for the current flowing to Figure 1.1 shows a
ground from a typical negative cloud-to-ground flash and presents terms for the
five main regions shown: the leader, the initial return stroke, an intermediate