1.2 rest of the cloud is negative. Figure shows α typical cloud with the charge
distributed as previously described. The cloud is moving to the left. The
unbroken lines represent stream lines of air.
NEGATIVE RAIN
Generalized diagram showing distribution of air currents and 1.2 Figure
typical cumulonimbus cloud. electrical charge distribution in α
The air currents and the electrical charges tend to be contained in localized
cells and the cloud as α whole to be composed of α number of cells. Α typical
1.8). The cloud might have the cell structure shown in Figure 1.3 (Reference
electrical charge contained within α cell might appear as shown in Figure 1.4
The temperature at the main negative-charge center will be (Reference 1.9).
-5 and at the auxiliary pocket of positive charge below it, about 0 about "C. OC
The main positive-charge center in the upper cloud will be about 15 colder "C
than its negative counterpart.
α typical cell is about minutes. At its mature stage the The lifetime of 30
cell as α whole will have α potential, with respect to the earth, of to lo9 10'
(V). α (C) volts It will have total stored charge of several hundred coulombs with
potential differences between positive- and negative-charge pockets again on the
order of lo8 to lo9 V. The cell as α whole will have α negative charge.
Conditions on Ground the 1.2.2
As the cloud passes over α point on the ground, an electrical charge is
attracted into the ground under the cloud. The average electric field at the
300 surface of the ground will change from its fair-weather value of about volts
per meter (V/μ) positive (air positive with respect to the earth) to as high as
several thousand volts per meter. Generally, when α cloud is overhead, the field
from cloud to earth will be negative, but when α localized positive region is
overhead, the field may be positive. The potential gradient will be concentrated
around sharp protruding points on the ground and can exceed the breakdown
strength of the air, which has α nominal value of 3 0 000 V/cm. When the