occurrence of the predicted attachment points and breakdown paths. Despite
the lower velocity and current amplitude, the arcs in Plumer'σ tests also dwelled
4 1 for times of between and ms on unpainted aluminum surfaces, results closely
parallel to those of the wind tunnel work. These parallel conclusions seem to
indicate that the arcs in the wind tunnel tests may not have moved as fast as the
wind itself, and, also, that current has relatively little to do with dwell amplitude
time.
6.47) Robb, Stahmann, and Newman (Reference have utilized the wind
tunnel technique to determine arc dwell times on various painted or coated
surfaces. Most of these coatings are electrically insulating and thus require that
the arc be further lengthened to allow the greater voltage buildup necessary to
puncture the insulation and form the next attachment point. The reasonable
agreement of test methods with the in-flight strike evidence makes it possible to
6.5 the dwell times to be expected on show, with some confidence, in Table
2Α). several surfaces commonly found in swept-stroke zones (Zone
Table 6.5 LIGHTNING DWELL TIMES ON TYPICAL
lN AIRCRAFT SURFACES ZONE 2Α
Aircraft Velocities
15.5 μ/σ 103 58 μ/σ μ/σ
Surface Type (1 30 mph) (230 mph) (35 mph)
'
4 Aluminum and to ms '2.0 ms 1.0 ms 1
titanium unpainted
44.8 ms '2.6 Aluminum anodized ms
Aluminum painted 20 3 ~ to π ms
6.46) Note Plumer (See Reference 1 -
6.45) 2 Note Oh and Schneider (See Reference -
6.47) Note Robb, Stahmann, and Newman (See Reference 3 -
4 6.44) Note Brick, Oh, and Schneider (See Reference
-
There are many different coatings and paints of various thicknesses found
on aircraft surfaces, and the effect of many of these on arc dwell time has not
yet been determined. It may therefore be advisable to perform swept-stroke tests
on metallic skiits by considering the particular coatings for α particular design.
4.3 of the SAE report Guidance for performance of such tests is given in Section
Lightrlirig Test Wale forms and Techniques for Aerospace Vehicles arld Hardware
(May 1976).
Once the expected dwell times are established, next it will be necessary to
determine the amplitude of current that might flow during these periods.