anodized or zinc chromate primer, but if it is applied across preexisting surfaces
where these treatments have been worn through, this voltage may be sufficient
to cause current flow and sparking.
stroke As stated earlier, the fraction of which enters a bonding current
produces are not known. It is quite probable jumper and the inductive voltage it
that at least some stroke currents would produce even higher rates of current rise
in the bonding jumpers than do the intermediate currents.
6.8.3.2 Conductivity through Couplings and Interfaces
Here again is an area where little electrical data is available. The extensive
use of anodized coatings to provide noncorrosive mating surfaces in pipe
couplings would seem to preclude arcing across the pipe interface, but relative
motion between these surfaces can wear through the anodized coating, causing a
conductive path. If there happens to be bare metal-to-metal contact within the
coupling, this would probably represent the shortest path, and it is altogether
possible that n o sparking would occur anywhere else in the coupling. A slight
change in the relative position of the mating surfaces or in some other aspect,
such as the tightness of its threaded assembly or introduction of dirt or residue,
may drastically change the electrical conductivity of a coupling. In fact, it is
probable that the electrical conductivity of a typical pipe coupling changes many
times during a flight as a result of relative motion caused by structural vibrations
and flexing.
In the absence of definitive data on the electrical conductivity of pipe
couplings under in-service conditions, it is advisable to take the following
approach:
Determine the fraction of lightning current expected to flow in a 1.
particular pipe, by analyses similar to the analysis of Section 6.8.3.1,
or, if available, a more authentic means.
2. Inject this expected current through a sample of the desired
coupling, under simulated in-flight vibration and contamination
conditions.
Perform this test in a darkened enclosure to enable inspection for 3.
sparks. Repeat the test until a reliable result is established.
sparking does occur in a coupling, a redesign is likely to be required for If
be possible to provide adequate conduc- assured prevention; however, it may
tivity with the addition of two or more short, wide braided jumpers or a braided
sleeve, as shown in Figure 6.38(a) and (b).
Alternatively, completely insulated couplings might be designed. If such an
insulated coupling were used, a jumper as shown in Figure 6.38(c) could be used
to conduct lightning currents and static charges, provided the length of the path
through the jumper is not much longer than the path through the air along the
surface or through the insulated coupler.
Before using any one of these or any other protective method that has to
be added to an existing coupling design, its adequacy should be verified by
impulse current tests to check for sparking.