open flame and flame and flow commonly augment each other by a
feedback mechanism as follows: stream turbulence, however slight it
may be initially, produces a wrinkling of the combustion wave
surface; the resulting increase of surface increases the amount of gas
burning per unit time, namely, the flow of gas in the channel; this in
turn produces more turbulence and hence, increased wrinkling of the
wave, and on, that the progress of the combustion wave so so
becomes nonsteady and self-accelerating. In addition, the burning
velocity increases as the unburned gas ahead of the flame is
preheated and precompressed by the compression waves that are
generated by the mass acceleration in the combustion wave. The
compression wave is initially a comparatively weak pressure wave,
which overtaken and reinforced during its travel by numerous is
other pressure waves originating in the combustion zone. The
coalescence of these pressure waves into a strong shock front in a
configuration which dead-ended can result in a reflection of the is
shock wave back toward the conlbustion zone. The effect of the
passage of this reflected shock wave through the combustion wave is
similar to the effect of a sudden release of pressure by a rupture of a
diaphragm. rarefaction wave propagates backward into the A
unburned gas and a jet of unburned gas develops which penetrates
deeply into the burned gas. The shear between burned and unburned
gas in this flow configuration produces extreme turbulence that a so
sudden large increase in the burning rate occurs.
In three of the 13 tests mentioned above, localized pressures of sufficient
intensity to distort to 5-foot sections of the duct were developed in the 3-
subsequent hydrostatic pressure test of a m section of rectangular vent duct. 1 A
475 similar duct showed that a pressure of approximately psig was required to
produce similar distortion. This pressure exceeds the structural limitations of
typical aircraft fuel tank and vent structures.
Gillis concluded that the surge tank located just inboard of the vent outlet
when is a factor contributing to the high flame speeds because, a flame reaches it
from the vent outlet, the pressure permitted to build up in it serves as a force to
drive flames rapidly o n down the vent lines towards the fuel tanks. This creates
turbulence in these ducts, which further serves to accelerate flames down the
ducts. Gillis' work is perhaps the most convincing demonstration to date that
flames traveling at sonic velocities and with damaging overpressures can occur in
STP systenls typical transport aircraft vent systems. Since flame arresters or
of reliably capable of stopping such flames are not yet available, the importance
preventing any source of ignition within or near the vent system is very clear.
6.4.3 Summary of Vent Flame Research and Protection
Considerations
6.1 Table summarizes the ignition and flame velocity results for each of