The reflected energy can possibly appear on other unprotected
circuits.
Multiple reflections may cause the transient to last longer than it
would otherwise.
The spectral density of the energy may be changed, either high or
low frequencies being enhanced. Interference problems on other
circuits may well be increased even though the risk of damage to the
protected circuit is reduced.
Most commonly the appropriate type of transient protective device to be
used depends on the amount of surge energy to be dealt with. Generally, this
energy decreases the further away one gets frotn the ~troke. The surge energy to
be expected can also be related crudely to the normal operating power of the
circuit involved. One would normally expect lower surge levels on low-voltage
signal circuits than on medium-power control circuits, and even lower levels than
distribution buses. Thus, one might logically use Zener those on main-power
diodes on individual circuit boards, vari~tors on terminal boards, and spark gaps
on leads running t o prime entry and exit polnts.
There are basically four generic types of transient protective devices
applicable to lightning hardening of aeronautical subsystems. These types are
gas-filled spark gaps, Zener diodes, varistors, and arcing dielectrics. The latter are
currently in development, but the others are readily available commercially.
Each rype has both advantages and disadvantages.
Spark Gaps 15.6.1
Spark gaps are generally composed of two metal electrodes separated by a
dielectric and held at a fixed distance from edch other. The gap may be sealed in
a container. Electrodes may be spherical, but in sophisticated devices they are
not. Sparkover voltage is determined by dielectric composition, density, and
electrode geometry. Sparkover voltage is also dependent on voltage waveshape.
If the voltage wave is increasing rapidly, the sparkover voltage will be higher than
it is on a slowly rising wave. Commercially available spark gaps frequently
contain minute amounts of tritium or other radioactive elements to reduce the
dependence of sparkover voltage on voltage waveshape.
The advantages of spark gaps are as follows:
They are simple and reliable.
They have very low-voltage drop during the conducting state. When
the gap is carrying maximum current, the voltage across the gap is
I0 20 V. typically to If more current tries to flow, the arc channel
4 low arc-drop increases in diameter and holds the same arc-drop.
indicates relatively low power absorption during the conducting
phase.
They have large power-handling capability. Gas-filled gaps have the
highest peak current-handling capabilities of any transient protection
device, and almost any gap can handle the maximum surge currents
induced by lightning.