or shorted to the floor. Measurements were made only of the open circuit
voltage or the short circuit current on the shield of the cable. Measurements
were not made of either the current or the voltage induced on the signal
conductor within the shield. The short circuit current is seen to rise to crest in
about 1 ps and to oscillate at a frequency of 123 kHz. The peak current
23 obtained with this configuration was about A.
If the conducter was left open at one end, the magnetic field that was then
produced in the core of the transformer induced an open circuit voltage of about
V. 210 The voltage rose to crest in about 0.2 ps and oscillated at a frequency of
91 kHz. The frequency was different because the inductance seen by the
capacitor in the pulse generator was different, depending on whether or not
there was a short circuit on the secondary of the transformer. The higher
frequency oscillations on the front of the open circuit voltage were caused by
the stray inductance and capacitance of the conductor under test.
Significant points to observe here are that the open circuit voltage will
invariably rise to crest faster than does the short circuit current and that the
open circuit voltage will typically oscillate at a lower frequency than does the
short circuit current. When the conductor under test is shorted, the inductance
seen by the pulse generator is lower than it is when the secondary is open. This
difference in oscillatory frequencies should be either recognized and allowed for
in test specifications or corrected by adjusting the capacitance of the pulse
generator used to excite the transformer.
When a unidirectional current was injected into the transformer (Figure
A 17.14), the short circuit current rose to a crest of about 5.5 in about 0.5 p.
The rise time was greater and the amplitude less because of the damping resistor
that was required to be in series with the primary winding. The open circuit
voltage again rose to crest more rapidly than did the short circuit current. If an
equal number of turns are used on the primary and secondary windings, there
will be less current in the secondary winding than in the primary. With the
of the primary transformer core used, the secondary current was about 65%
current. The factors that affect the performance of puke-injection transformers
are discussed in more detail in paragraph 17.5.4.
As an alternative to transformer coupling, it is possible to discharge the
pulse generator into a wire run parallel to the cable interconnecting the two
pieces of equipment. This technique is less efficient in coupling low-frequency
energy into the cable under test than is the transformer technique, but it may be
more effective in coupling high-frequency energy.
Equipment for Generation of and Magnetic Fields Electric 17.5.4
The test equipment described so far has been aimed at the injection of
current or voltage pulses into the terminals of electronic equipment. There is
sometimes a need for subjecting an entire piece of electronic equipment to an
engulfing electric or magnetic field, principally to check for magnetic field
leakage of a cabinet. Sometimes these effects are checked with a wire-wrap
technique in which a coil of wire is wrapped around the item to be tested and