(Reference 6.51) shows that the higher the lightning current amplitude, the
shorter the time, tc, required to reach the coulomb ignition threshold, and that
6 C of charge are for thicknesses as great as 0.102 cm (0.040 in), only 5 to
necessary to reach this threshold if the charge is delivered in 10 ms or more by a
current of 500 A or less. This means that if a titanium skin is proposed for use in
Zone 2A, a lightning arc should not be permitted to dwell for more than about 5
ms at any one point on the surface. According to the dwell time data of Table
may 6.5, in) this means, in turn, that a 0.102 cm (0.040 skin not have its outside
surface painted. Anticorrosion paints or sealants on the inside surface of a
titanium skin may ease the problem by providing thermal insulation between the
fuel and the hot spot, but the degree of actual protection thus obtained should
be determined by laboratory tests before such coatings are judged reliable in a
design.
Time 6.6.4.2 Ways Reduce Dwell to
The foregoing discussion makes clear the importance of lightning arc dwell
time in establishing whether or not ignition from a strike to a certain skin is
likely to occur. And dwell time is perhaps the only lightning characteristic over
which the integral fuel tank designer may have any control. The objectives, of
course, should be to have as short as possible a dwell time at any one spot and to
spread thz arc attachment among many different spots. bare metallic external A
finish will best achieve these aims, since most paints and other coatings act to
concentrate the attachment at more widely separated points for correspondingly
longer times than does a bare surface.
If a paint must be used, lightning dwell times may be reduced by making
the paint partially conductive. Robb and others (Reference 6.52) have
demonstrated that aluminum powder is effective in increasing the conductivity
of polyurethane paints, thereby increasing the ability of the arc to reattach to
new points as the aircraft surface moves beneath the arc. Since no parametric
data relating dwell time to amount of additive are yet available, it is advisable to
determine in the laboratory the degree of improvement afforded by particular
combinations.
6.6.5 Integral Tanks in Trailing Edges Fuel
If an integral tank skin is the aft-most trailing edge of an aircraft wing tip
or other structure (Zones IB, 2B), metal skins of almost any thickness will be
melted completely through because the flash is likely to hang on there for most
of its life. This conclusion derives from the data presented; the application
C 99% of all flashes deliver 200 or less, and SAE follows. Figure 1.25 shows that
C C current component reflects this in its requirement for transfer of 200 in s 1
7 or less. Figure 6.1 shows that this much charge would melt through aluminum
13 skins up to 0.8 cm (0.3 in) thick, and Figure 6.18 shows that it would
(2400 on the inside produce the fuel ignition temperature of 1320 OC
O F )
surface of titanium skins over 0.318 cm (0.125 in) thick. Therefore, because of
153