Tbese were interconnected to the fly-by-wire control systems through wire
bundles that ran under the wings. The control systems did not depend upon the
aircraft structure as α return path; the system was considered to have α
single-point ground, and that single-point ground was located at α panel in the
gun bay. By and large, none of the control wiring in the aircraft was shielded.
In contrast to the tests on the wing of the F-89J aircraft, in which
high-amplitude currents were injected into the wing from α high-power surge
F-8 generator, the tests on the complete aircraft were made with what has been
called the α portable and relatively low-power surge generator transient analyzer,
capable of injecting currents of α waveform similar to that found in lightning but
of α much lower, and nondestructive, level. During the tests on the F-8, the
Α. injected current was of the order of 300 Several different current waveshapes
were employed; the one to which most frequent reference will be made in
this abbreviated set of test results is that described as the α fast waveform,
16 current rising to crest in about ps and decaying to half value in about 3 π.
These waveforms are shown in Figure 14.8.
The first set of measurements to which reference will be made was that on
α α set of spare conductors running between an interface box in the gun bay and
disconnect panel located near the leading edge of the vertical stabilizer. The
routings of the circuit and the waveforms are shown in Figures 14.9 and 14.10.
The voltage measured between the conductor and ground consisted of α
high-amplitude oscillatory component and α lower amplitude but longer
duration component. The oscillatory component was excited by magnetic flux
leaking inside the aircraft, while the longer duration component was produced
by the flow of current through the structural resistance of the aircraft. Since the
voltages induced by the leakage of magnetic flux were proportional to the rate
of change of that flux, it followed that the oscillatory component would have
been more pronounced for faster currents injected into the aircraft than it was
MODE AND POWER PANEL
cENTE19;Π
STICK
 \ " C I & RTCELE SYSTEM
DISPLAY AND KEYBOARD
Location fly-by-wire control system hardware and wiring 14.7 of Figure
aircraft. bundles in F-8