stoichiometric propane-air mixture by α 48 kA, 0.009 ξ lo6 Α ~ - Σ simulated
direct stroke occurred only once in 34 shots with α 90-knot (46 μ/σ) airflow
over the outlet and not at all after 200 shots in α 200-knot (100 μ/σ) airflow.
When strokes of longer duration were swept across the vent outlet by the
90-knot windstream, the effluent was ignited 11 times out of 15 runs, but when
the airflow was increased to 200 knots, only 2 ignitions occurred in 46 runs.
Nearly all of Newman'σ tests were performed under the most vulnerable
effluent condition, which was found to be α 1.5 mls flow out of the vent outlet,
such as might exist when an aircraft is climbing. Since more than half of all
reported lightning strikes occur when the aircraft is either in level flight or
descending and since most aircraft climb at well over 90 knots, the probability
of an in-flight ignition from α stroke to α vent outlet must be remote. direct
Newman'σ investigation, however, showed that α flash across the vent sweeping
outlet might have α greater (2 in 46) chance of igniting an effluent, even under
climb conditions at the more realistic speed of 250 knots. This result
demonstrates the importance of locating vent outlets away from both direct and
swept-stroke zones on the aircraft.
6.4.2 Explosive Ignitions
In the program just described, Newman and his colleagues conducted α test
(Reference 6.18) in which α stroke to the vent outlet produced indications of
unusually high flame velocities and severe deformation of the vent outlet,
indicating much higher pressures than normal. They cite α similar case in another
program in which flames traveling in excess of 300 μ/σ (1000 ftls) were actually
measured. The implication of these findings is serious because an arrester or
surge tank protection system capable of extinguishing the Iower velocity flames
may not be able to stop flames traveling as fast as 300 mls.
Kester and others (Reference 6.19) attempted to reproduce such speeds in
α 14 cm simulated vent line, shown in Figure 6.9, but did not measure flame
velocities higher than 20 mls (65 ftls) in this system, even when severe, 180 kA,
1.0 ξ lo6 strokes were applied. These velocities were, in fact, comparable Α ~ - Σ
to those measured in the Atlantic Research-LTRI program of 1964. Kester and
his colleagues also reported one explosive ignition, when α stroke of 195 kA was
delivered to the vent outlet. It was found that the 195 kA stroke current had
induced α voltage in instrument wiring sufficiently high to spark over the
insulation around several pressure probes inside the vent line. The vent outlet
and parts of the surge tank were badly deformed, even though these parts were
made of 0.64 cm (0.25 in) steel. Again, much higher than usual pressures were
indicated. The explosion in the Kester program serves as α warning that α similar
consequence might conceivably result from inductive voltages in an actual fuel
system unless, by means of design, care is taken to eliminate such situations.
The question of whether or not these explosive ignitions could occur in
actual fuel tank vent systems was of such importance that the Federal Aviation
Administration undertook yet another study of flame propagation in vent