Π, The total magnetic field strength at then, would be the sum of the
Ξ and axes. components produced by the dipoles lying along the Y
+ Hxy If H,, =
Ξ
Ξ, Z The total field strength at point would be the vector summation of the Π Y,
components of the field.
The field strength is seen to be inversely proportional to the cube of the
distance from the aperture to the point in question. Accordingly, the
aperture-coupled fields will be localized in space near the aperture. Small
apertures are thus less troublesome than large apertures, both because of the
decreased magnetic field strength associated with the corresponding dipole and
hyause of the lesser distance one must be removed from the aperture before the
field strength becomes negligible compared to the field strength closer to the
aperture. =
The above formulation has one major restriction: it is valid only in the
low-frequency region, low-frequency imply~ng that the aperture is small
compared to the wavele~gths of the field under consideration. Coupling through
apertures increases with increasing frequency, as witness the quarter-wave
resonant slot antenna. The fo~mulation also treats only the internal magnetic
fields produced by external magnetic fields and does not treat the electric field
produced by α changing magnetic field or the magnetic field produced by α
11.1) treats the interaction more changing electric field. Taylor (Reference in
.~?agne!ic ~δ fields is greater detail. This interaction between changing electric
at high frequencies and, for the frequency σ$χ;um associated with lightning, is
possibly of importance only at those frequenc'les for which the aperture is not
electrically small.
The above formulation is also valid on'$ when the point at which the field
is τ o be calculated is at α distance from the ap,:rture that is large compared to the
rnade to calculate the fields close dimensions of the aperture. If an attempt is to
the aperture, the results are inaccurate. If the distance from the point to the
aperture goes to zero, the calczated magnitude of fieldsbecomes infinite,
whereas the field itself can never in fact bec ~ μ ε larger (barring reflections) than
It can be shown, in fact, hat the actual field strength in the the external field.