Zone 2. Surfaces of the vehicle across which there is a high probability of
a lightning flash being swept by the airflow from a Zone point of direct 1
flash attachment
Zone 3. 3 Zone includes all of the vehicle areas other than those covered
1 and Zone regions. In Zone there is a low probability of any by Zone 3 2
direct attachment of the lightning-flash arc, but Zone areas may carry 3
substantial amounts of electrical current by direct conduction between
some pairs of direct or swept-stroke attachment points in other zones.
BFI definitions further divide Zones and into A and regions The Task 2
depending on the probability of the flash hanging on for any protracted period
of time. An A-type region is one in which there is low probability that the arc
will remain attached, and a B-type region is one in which there is a high
probability that the arc will remain attached. Some examples of zones are as
follows:
Zone Initial attachment point with low probability of flash hang-on, 1.4.
such as a nose
Zone IB. Initial attachment point with high probability of flash hang-on,
a tail cone such as
ZA. Zone A swept-stroke zone with low probability of flash hang-on, such
as a wing mid-span
Zone A swept-stroke zone with high probability of flash hang-on, 2B.
such as a wing trailing edge.
The Task F definitions are not in conflict with the FAA criteria but,
rather, are broader in scope and consider the complete aircraft in addition to
those areas of importance to the fuel system, which is the system primarily
FAA AC 20-53. addressed by
F In accord with the Task criteria, typical lightning effects and test criteria
(described in subsequent chapters of this book) have been categorized according
to each of these zones. The actual boundaries of each of these zones on a
particular aircraft can never be exactly determined, but they can be established
with sufficient accuracy to enable adequate lightning protection to be designed
for the aircraft.
Initial lightning attachment points (Zone IA) can usually be established by
inspection and comparison with other aircraft in-flight experience. Locations of
in the other zones can then be deduced from the locations of Zone lA,
accordance with the definitions. Alternately, simulated lightning flashes can be
B) 1 (A and fired in a laboratory to a model of the aircraft, and the Zone
attachment points determined photographically; however, the validity of such