hinge itself, or else to provide additional hinges.
Bond straps across hinges sometimes to prevent the are required
electromagnetic interference that arises from precipitation static charges being
conducted through hinges with loose or resistive contact. The low currents
involved are sometimes unable to follow uninterrupted paths through hinges,
with the result that minute sparking occurs. Bond straps are usually able to
If provide enough conductivity to reduce this sparking. bond straps are applied
1 for this purpose, the guidelines of Figure 7.1 should be followed.
7.3 Nonmetallic Structures
With the use of nonmetallic materials in aircraft structural and fuel system
components, the question of lightning vulnerability becomes important. An
all-metallic airframe is in many ways quite compatible with basic lightning
protection requirements; often only minor design modifications have been
needed to provide adequate lightning protection. Nonmetallic structural com-
ponents, however, may be considerably more vulnerable to lightning from lack
of electrical conductivity. Thus, protective measures must usually be applied. If
this is not done, hazardous consequences, such as those illustrated in the
4.5 4, example described in Section of Chapter may result.
There are three basic types of nonmetallic materials found in aircraft.
These are fiberglass-reinforced plastics (commonly called "fiberglass"), boron- or
graphite-reinforced plastics (commonly called "advanced composites" or simply
.
"composites"), and polycarbonate resins such as Lexan' and Plexiglas2 The
latter materials are used for windshields or canopies. Fiberglass is used most
commonly to achieve light weight in wing tips, fin caps, access doors, and in
other applications where high mechanical strength is not required. The advanced
composites, on the other hand, are capable of sustaining very high tensile and
shear loads; for this reason they are being considered for primary structural
applications.
Since the electrical conductivity and high-voltage withstand capability of
each of these types of nonmetallic materials vary widely from those of the
others, in the following paragraphs we shall discuss the important lightning
effects problems and design of protective measures for structures made of each
basic material.
7.3.1 Fiberglass Structures
Fiberglass-reinforced plastics have essentially no electrical conductivity.
Moreover, they are usually incapable of withstanding the high-voltage stresses
created by the approaching lightning leader and frequently will undergo
dielectric breakdown, allowing the flash to puncture them and terminate on
some conducting object inside. The ensuing return stroke current can blast a
'
Trademark of General Electric Company the
2~rademark the Rohm and Haas Company of