tangent line is not obvious by inspection, specifications frequently require that
10% and 90% the straight line defining the front be that passing through the
points. Sometimes specifications require that the straight line be drawn through
points. The duration of the tail, τ2, is most frequently defined the 30% and 9Wo
as the time required for the wave to decay to one-half its initial amplitude. Some
alternate specifications may define the tail in terms of the ε-folding time, the
time required for the wave to decay to λ/ε, or approximately 37% of its initial
amplitude.
With some types of test circuits the characteristic wave produced is that of
an exponential wave with α relatively small backswing, as shown in Figure
17.λ(χ). Technically, such α wave is α damped oscillatory wave with α high
degree of damping. Specifications made with regard to the peak amplitude of
τ'λ, Α,, such α wave, and to the time to crest, or will be the same as those for τ,
the exponential wave. Specifications relating to the decay time may refer to
either the time required for the wave to decay to one-half (or alternatively 37%)
of its initial amplitude or the time required for the wave to decay to zero, tj.
Specifications which relate to an exponential wave with backswing frequently
require that the maximum amplitude of the backswing, Α2, be less than some
specified fraction of the initial amplitude. The duration of the backswing is
frequently unspecified. In summary, then, the characteristics required to specify
Α, the generalized triangular wave of Figure 17.λ(δ) are the peak amplitude, the
time to crest, τ λ , and α measure of the duration of the wave. This latter may be
either the time required to decay to half value, τ2, or the time required to decay
to zero, tj. If is small with respect to either τ2 or τ j , τ2 may be assumed to be τ λ
equal to one-half of τ3.
1 7.3 Tests on Complete Vehicles
Tests on complete vehicles may be intended either as full-scale proof tests
of the aircraft and all its internal electrical and electronic systems, or they may
be transient analysis tests to determine only how the wiring responds to the
electromagnetic fields produced by the simulated lightning current.
17.3.1 Proof Tests Techniques and Waveforms
Proof tests on α complete vehicle are intended primarily to identify system
incompatibility problems--systems which may operate properly by themselves
but which may fail when the complete vehicle is subjected to lightning currents.
For example, redundant systems may provide no redundancy when they are
simultaneously affected by the same induced voltages. Typical test setups are
shown in Figure 17.2 (Reference 17.4).
In α test of this nature α high-power surge generator is placed adjacent to
the aircraft; current is passed into one extremity of the aircraft and returned to
the surge generator through an external wire or wires--preferably wires
sufficiently well insulated that the test current is confined to the test circuit and
does not enter the ground network of the facility where the tests are made.