homogeneous material will elongate proportionately, but frequently only one
dimension is of much concern. The most significant expansion in a part such as
the pressure tube would be along its length.
Based on the coefficient of linear expansion for copper given in Table 7.1
o ' ~
x L, 2 1 1°C) and the assumption that the tube has a length, of m as 0.1 64 (1
when "cold," a 67 "C temperature rise would cause an elongation of
If the tube is fastened rigidly, this elongation may cause sufficient stress to break
clamps or force the tube to bend. Thus, the tube supports should be designed to
accept this elongation without undue stress.
Thermal elongation calculations may be made for other conductors by
SR-52 using Equation 7.9 or the programmable calculator programs in
2. Appendices 1 and These programs calculate the elongation in millimeters per
centimeter of conductor length for the basic conductors and in inches per foot
of conductor length for tubes, since dimensions of tubes are commonly
presented in inches.
The temperature rise and elongation expressions described this and in in
the previous section have been closely confirmed up to 100 "C by laboratory
tests in which simulated lightning currents of known action integral are passed
through conductors whose temperature and elongation are measured. Temper-
ature rise is most easily measured by temperature-sensitive tapes or by an
optical pyrometer. Elongation can be measured by a mechanical deflection
indicator attached to the specimen. Calculated results above 100 "c, however,
will begin to diverge from the actual because of physical property changes at
higher temperatures.
7.2.4 Magnetic Force Effects
mentioned earlier, there are situations in which several conductors As in
in parallel may carry lightning currents and, such cases, each conductor will be
acted upon by a magnetic force proportional to the product of the currents in
each conductor. One such case is shown in Figure 7.5.
,
dl,, CONDUCTOR 1
0 $ 7 44 -
dP,
D
2 CONDUCTOR
) '
dl2
2 J.
Magnetic forces among parallel current-carrying conductors. Figure 7.5