should be repeated with the diverter moved another centimeter away, and so on,
until α puncture occurs and the arc terminates on the conducting object beneath
the skin instead of on the diverter. When this point has been reached, the
Σ, diverter is no longer effective, and the largest spacing, at which no punctures
occurred defines the maximum displacement distance. If more than one diverter
to be used, the diverters should be arranged so that the conducting object is is
this between them. In case their maximum separation must not exceed 2Σ, as
shown in Figure 7.23.
ρ
4
4 I
DIVERTER DIVERTER
Σ Σ STRAP STRAP
IIII NONMETALLIC SKIN
6-
Σ MAXIMUM DIVERTER DISPLACEMENT CONDUCTING =
OBJECT
Arrangement of multiple diverter straps maximum separation. 7.23 Figure for
in One such test was run by Plumer on α section of the wing tank shown
Figure 7.21, with the aluminum vent line imbedded in the upper tank wall and
the capacitance probe along its side wall, as recorded in his report. The diverter
6.7 was found to be effective within α spacing, Σ, of cm; but α spacing of 9.2 cm
caused the arc to puncture the skin and terminate on the'vent line beneath.
cm Thus, allowing for α margin of safety, the diverter should be no more than 5
away from α line directly above the vent tube.
From the same test performed for the capacitance probe, it was found that
the diverters could be over 15 cm away before puncture occurred. The reason
for this difference is that the capacitance probe was farther away from the upper
skin; hence more voltage was required to puncture the skin and allow
termination on the probe. Since the probe was angled, however, and did come
5 cm closer to the tank surface farther outboard, it can be concluded that the
criterion determined for protection of the vent tube should also be applied for
the capacitance probe. Since in this tank the capacitance probe and vent tubes
are about 25 cm apart, two diverter straps (or perhaps α single strap 15 cm wide)
would be required to provide adequate protection. Straps would be required on
both the top and bottom of the tank for prevention of punctures to the
capacitance probe, but only on the top surface to prevent punctures to the vent
tube, since the vent tube is located just beneath the top surface. Fabrication of
the vent tube from nonconducting material would therefore eliminate the need
15 for α strap as wide as cm.
Each diverter strap utilized should adhere to the outer skin surface and
should be electrically bonded to the wing tip doubler or diverter assembly at the