3.5 Thunderstorm Avoidance
Clearly, whenever it is possible to avoid the severe environments which
thunderstorms present, it is desirable to do so. For, even if the aircraft is
adequately protected against lightning effects, the turmoil caused by wind and
precipitation in or near thunderstorms presents a serious hazard to safe flight.
Consequently, the operating procedures of commercial airlines and those of
other air carriers strongly advise against penetration of thunderstorms.
In attempts to avoid thunderstorm regions, pilots use three indicators:
Visual sighting of thunderclouds (cumulonimbus) in daytime and of
lightning at night
Airborne radar patterns of precipitation areas
Ground-base radar patterns, if available, relayed by Air Traffic
Control (ATC) to aircrews as instructions for thunderstorm
avoidance.
Methods of thunderstorn avoidance in common use are, in order of
preference
25 Circumvention of thunderclouds, ideally by miles or more
Flying over the tops of thunderclouds
Flying beneath the bases (bottoms) of thunderclouds.
Obviously, when other conditions are equal, the degree to which any of
these measures is successful depends on the accuracy of the information received
by the pilots.
Aside from visual observation (which has obvious limitations), the most
common method of detecting thunderstorms is using airborne weather radar.
Radar, however, cannot detect clouds themselves; it can detect only the
associated precipitation (if any), which is capable of producing an echo; only the
in rain that may be present the cloud will produce a radar echo.
A typical C-band airborne weather radar presentation of a thunderstorm
(cumulonimbus cloud) with active precipitation ar?d frequent lightning is shown
in Figure 3,9 (Reference 3.19). The pictures were taken during a research project
carried out by Beckwith of United Air Lines to determine the weather detection
capability of airborne radar. The photographs shown were taken during a United
Air Lines flight from Chicago to Denver on August 1960. 3,
shows the northern end of a line of severe Figure 3.9 (Reference 3.19)
thunderstorms, developed from cold front, in Illinois. A detour to the north a
was planned and successfully executed with the aid of this radar presentation.
The flight remained in clear and generally smooth air while making the detour.
The strong echos were easily detected with a slight upward tilt of the radar
antenna to eliminate ground clutter.
It is possible to obtain more information regarding the intensity of a storm
by use of the contour circuit provided on most radars. This circuit provides a
means of eliminating any reflected signal the intensity of which is above a
certain level. Figure (Reference 3.20) shows the same radar return as that in 3.10
Figure 3.9 (Reference 3.19) one minute later with the contour circuit employed.
65