certification regulations which deal with aircraft lightning protection.
reviews in some depth what is known about lightning effects on Chapter 6
aircraft fuel systems and tells how to design protection against these effects. We
give considerable attention to this subject and urge the designer to do likewise
because of the serious consequences in the past of lightning effects on these
7 deals with the protection of the aircraft from structural systems. Chapter
damage resulting from lightning, with emphasis on the nonmetallic materials--
the materials that may be more vulnerable than metal structures they are
beginning to replace.
The remainder of the book deals with indirect effects. Chapter 8
introduces the reader to the basic mechanisms by which induced voltages occur
9 in aircraft electrical circuits, and Chapters through treat these mechanisms 14
15 and 16 then consider the impact of induced in greater detail. Chapters
voltages upon solid state electronic devices and tell how these devices may be
philosophy are protected. Here, concepts such as the transient control level
presented. Concepts of this kind may form the basis for future specifications
that define the roles to be played by both the aircraft designer and the
17 we show how aircraft can electronics equipment designer. Finally, in Chapter
tested to determine their actual susceptibility to indirect effects and how be
tested to determine its vulnerability or prove that protection equipment can be
design goals have been met.
To some extent, each chapter stands by itself and can be utilized without
knowledge of the others. Dependencies often exist, however, among the
lightning effects on structural, electrical, and fuel systems; for the most
thorough understanding of lightning effects on any one of these systems, the
reader is urged to read the entire book.
Part of the research upon which this book is based was conducted by
ourselves, but a significant amount was conducted by researchers at other
or incorporated that work frequently. Without laboratories. We have referred to
it our present understanding of lightning effects--as well this book--would as
not have been possible. Not all of the work conducted in this field could be
referenced, of course, but we have carefully studied most of it. The work we
reference is that which we consider to be definitive, and we have taken care to
provide complete source details so that the reader can refer to them for
additional information.
Even though much has now been learned about lightning effects on
aircraft and how to design protection, there are still some lightning effects which
are not fully understood. Examples of these are the mechanisms by which (1)
lightning currents diffuse into interior structural members and conducting parts
(2) together with the extent to which this happens and the effects of
electromagnetic radiation from the lightning arc upon aircraft electrical and
electronic systems. We have tried to identify these areas as they are encountered,
and we caution the reader to remain alert for developments in these areas in the
future.
While much of this book may appear oriented to the designer, there is