They are self-extinguishing. When applied voltage drops below the
Zener level, they cease conduction.
They exhibit low volt-time turnup, or impulse ratio.
The disadvantages of Zener diodes include the following:
They may be expensive.
They are not bilateral. To protect against both polarities, two diodes
in series back-t~back configuration are necessary.
Diodes have relatively high-junction capacitance; therefore, they
may cause significant signal loss at operating frequencies above 1
MHz. Special diode assemblies may extend the useful frequency to
MHz. approximately 50
They do not switch state between a conducting and a nonconducting
mode. The voltage across the diode does not switch to a low value
when conducting but remains at the Zener voltage. This character-
istic accounts for their ability to cease conduction when the voltage
disadvantage thermally. falls below the Zener level, but it has a
During conduction, the power absorbed by the diode is the product
of the current through the diode and the voltage across the diode.
The power absorbed for constant current, thus, is directly propor-
tional to the diode voltage.
Partially offsetting this disadvantage, however, is the phenom-
enon that surge energy absorbed in the diode is energy that cannot
be reflected back into the system to cause trouble elsewhere.
They provide lower energy capabilities than do spark gaps. Since the
P-N junction, the mass of Zener action takes place across a narrow
the protecting junction is small and hence cannot store much energy.
As a result, diode networks cannot be used where extremely high
transient current or energy is predicted. For most hardening
applications, this is not a serious limitation, since the induced
100 I A surge-current levels are the to range at those locations in
where Zener diodes are most likely to be used.
5 They are not available for voltage below about V.
They are not normally available for voltages above a few hundred
volts.
Forward-Conducting Diodes 15.6.3
a In a forwardconducting state, diode conducts little current below about
V V 0.3 for germanium and for silicon. They can, as a result, be placed 0.6
directly across a low-voltage line and afford substantial protection.
The advantages of forward-conducting diodes include the following:
They are of small size.
They are not costly.
They provide protection at very low-voltage levels.
*
They have excellent surge-current ratings.