ν
SCREEN ROOM
ELLIPTICAL CYLINDER
\
TWO SHEETS
OF ALUMINUM
WITH EDGES
OVERLAPPED
ABOUT 14 mm
\ I
= V 20kVm,, EQUALLY SPACED' SIX
CURRENT RETURN WIRES
Setup test to demonstrate internal voltages in an elliptical 10.18 of Figure
cylinder.
(majorlminor 5) and was made from two sheets of aluminum bent over α =
wooden framework with the overlapping edges stapled at close intervals to the
internal wooden framework. The edges overlapped by about cm. After 1.4
stapling, the seam was covered with α 5 cm wide sheet of adhesive-backed
aluminum fod. The thickness of the metal sheet was 0.38 mm (0.015 inches).
One end of the cylinder was bolted to α metal plate facing the outer wall of α
screen room. The other end of the cylinder was sealed ω ~ τ η metal strips and
connected to α pulse generator. The pulse generator consisted of α capacitor
kV. 20 bank capable of being charged to α maximum of For most of the tests
160 R 48 the capacitor was and was discharged through into the end of the pF
elliptical cylinder. Current was brought into the end of the cylinder through four
conductors so arranged as to minimize any local end effects. Current was
returned to the pulse generator through six equally spaced return wires spaced
about 18 inches from the center of the cylinder. Multiple return wires were used
both to minimize the external inductance through which the generator had to
discharge and to minimize any possible proximity effects. Internal to the
cylinder were placed eight conductors at different locat~ons, the locations being
as shown in Figure 10.19. Two of the conductors were taped against the inner
surface of the metal sheet. One of these, conductor number was located at the 1,
8, narrow end of the cylinder, while the other, conductor number was located
about halfway to the center. The rernaining conductors were all located at
different points along the major axis of the ellipse. The conductors were number
22AWG and insulated with the θ~ckness of insulation normal to such
conductors. Each conductor was connected at the current input end to the inner
Λ2, 68 the purpose of the resistor surface of the end cap through α resistor of