caused by lightning-induced voltages in the electrical wires leading to
such a probe
The balance of this chapter considers each of the above ignition sources
and methods of their elimination.
6.4 Vent Outlets
The temperature of a lightning arc far exceeds that required to ignite a
flammable fuel-air mixture; therefore, any direct contact of the lightning flash
with such a mixture must be considered an ignition source. Since fuel tank vents
which a flammable fuel vapor can be exposed to the are the primary means by
outside of an aircraft, a considerable amount of research has been undertaken to
evaluate the possibilities of lightning ignition of fuel vent vapors. One of the first
studies of this possibility is that of the Lockheed-California Company and the
kghtning and Transients Research Institute in 1963 for the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration (Reference 6.7). In this program, fuel-air
concentrations in the vicinity of aircraft vent outlets of several configurations
were measured and mapped under various conditions of tank vapor fuellair ratio
and effluent velocity. The tests were run in a wind tunnel producing an airflow
of up to 100 knots. Mast vents discharging into wakes and free air streams were
tested, as well as flush vents discharging into boundary layers, as shown in
Figure 6.5 (Reference 6.8). The study showed that a vent discharging into a free
stream exhibits the greatest dilution and thus the smallest flammable region, but
that flammable mixtures can exist in the immediate vicinity of each type of vent
outlet.
typical mixture concentration profile aft of a flush vent outlet is shown A
6.6 in Figure (Reference 6.9). Depending upon the richness of the original
effluent, dilution of it by the addition of air to 3096, or more, might well lean it
of out the flammability envelope. Thus, dilution to nonflammable mixture a
probably occurs farther than about one outlet diameter away from the outlet.
This finding suggests that a lightning strike or associated streamer must occur
very near to the edge of a vent outlet for an ignition to occur.
1963 The above prediction was confirmed in the second part of the
Lockheed-LTRI study, which included application of simulated lightning strikes
to a flush vent outlet with flammable fuel-air mixtures exiting from it into an
100 knots, both with and without flame arresters installed. airstream moving at
These flame arresters, which were being evaluated as possible protective devices,
consist of a parallel bundle of small-diameter metal tubes inserted into the vent
line near the vent outlet, as pictured in Figure 6.7(a) (Reference 6.10). An
alternate construction utilized a series of baffles extending into the fuel vapor
flow, as shown in Figure 6.7(b). The object in either case is to quench
(extinguish) the flame by cooling it, and the small tubes, or baffles, are intended
to accomplish this by providing additional surface area to conduct heat away
from the flame. The test results showed that it was possible to get ignition of the
vent effluent in the 100-knot airflow only when the lightning arc was delivered