current, a continuing current, and one or more restrikes. Each of these aspects
will be discussed.
INTERMEDIATE RESTRIKE
Generalized waveshape of current in negative cloud-to-ground Figure 1.1
lightning. (Note that the drawing not to scale.) is
1.2 Generation of the Lightning Flash
1.2.1 Generation of the Charge
The energy that produces lightning is assumed to be provided by warm air
rising upwards into a developing cloud. As the air rises it becomes cooler, and at
the dew point, the excess water vapor condenses into water droplets, forming a
-40 cloud. When the air has risen high enough for the temperature to drop to
O C ,
the water vapor will have frozen to ice. At lower elevations there will be many
supercooled water drops that are not frozen, even though the temperature is
lower than the freezing point. In this supercooled region, ice crystals and
hailstones form.
According to one theory, the cloud becomes electrically charged by the
following process (Reference 1.1). Some of the ice crystals which have formed
coalesce into hailstones. These hailstones fall through the cloud gathering
additional supercooled water droplets. As droplets freeze onto a hallstone, small
splinters of ice chip off. Apparently, these splinters carry away a positive
electrical charge, leaving the hailstone with a net negative charge. The vertical
wind currents in the cloud carry the ice splinters into the upper part of the
cloud, while the hailstone, being heavier, falls until it reaches warmer air, where
some portion of it melts and the remainder continues to earth. Thus, the upper
part of the cloud takes on a positive charge while the lower region takes on a
negative charge. In some other manner, another smaller pocket of positive charge
may be formed near the front of the base of the cloud and below the main body
of negative charge.
Other theories have been proposed to account for the electrification of the
cloud (References 1.2 to 1.7). All of them are based on experimentally observed
a evidence that the charge in the top of the cloud is positive. There may also be
body of positive charge near the front of the base of the cloud. The charge in the