BOUNDARY LAYER THICKNESS VENT DIAMETERS 0.50
VENT EXIT VELOCITY Ξ FREE STREAM VELOCITY 0.10
-
LONGITUDINAL DISTANCE VENT DIAMETERS
6 8 10
IIIII
-10-
- 2- VERTICAL DIAMETERS
1 PERCENTAGE INITIAL CONCENTRATION
Typical profile of vent effluent in air stream aft of α flush vent 6.6 Figure
outlet. (Profiles vary according to boundary layer thickness, effluent
and air stream velocities, etc.)
investigation of the possibility of lightning-initiated fuel tank vent fires was
undertaken by Bolta and others of the Atlantic Research Corporation with the
support of Newman and others of the Lightning and Transients Research
Institute (Reference 6.12). This work was sponsored by the FAA and focused on
the Boeing 707 wing tank and vent system, with the objective of determining the
conditions under which ignition of fuel vent effluent allows flames to propagate
back through the vent duct and surge tank and from there into the reserve tank.
Another objective was the evaluation of various protective measures, including
flame arresters and flame-extinguishing systems.
Unlike the earlier Lockheed program, the vent was tested in still air, the
rationale being that, if an ignitable effluent is assumed to be at the outlet,
attachment of the lightning arc to the lip of the vent outlet is the governing
in factor obtaining ignition. The ignitable mixture was α 1.15 stoichiometric
mixture of propane and air.
Thermocouples were installed along the vent line to determine the time at
which α flame passed by, thus enabling calculation of flame front velocities. The
latter information was important because an automatic extinguishing system
under consideration depended for its operation on sufficient time elapsing
between the initial sensing of α flame at α vent outlet and the activation of an
extinguisher in the surge tank located about 1 μ down the vent line. The
simulated lightning tests confirmed the earlier result--that α strike must occur
very close to the vent outlet for ignition to occur. Average flame velocities of up
to 45 μ/σ were recorded between the vent outlet and the surge tank when
simulated lightning strokes of 175 kA and ξ lo6 ampere2-seconds (Α~-σ) 1.5
α were applied. These strokes simulated severe return stroke such as that which
might be experienced if the vent outlet were located in Zone 1Α or 1Β. Other
10 tests were run with the high current delivered through α cm aluminum foil
tape which would explode as the current passed through it. The resulting flames
reached higher velocities (up to 126 μ/σ), but the exploding tape may have
caused the higher flame speeds, creating conditions more severe than those in α
natural case, where an arc alone is the ignition source.
When lower amplitude currents of 44 kA and only 0.001 ξ lo6 were Α ~ - Σ
123