These methods include inerting of the fuel tank ullage with gases, such as
nitrogen or carbon dioxide, and mechanicaI subdivision of the tank volume with
reticulated foams. Nitrogen-inerting systems have been developed and flight
USAF C-141 and C-135 (Reference 6.6) among others, but they tested on the
have not been used extensively on any fleet of commercial aircraft because of
excessive cost and weight penalties. Inerting systems have been used on several
military aircraft for protection against fuel ignition resulting from enemy
gunfire.
Even if inerting systems were to come into common use, it would be
advisable to take positive steps to assure that no ignition source could occur in
the event of a lightning strike because there may never be complete assurance
that a flammable mixture did not exist somewhere in the fuel system. Therefore,
or while the inclusion of while the use of low-volatility fuels such as Jet A
inerting systems to reduce the flammability of the atmosphere in a fuel tank will
undoubtedly increase flight safety in the event of a lightning strike, these
measures should not be relied upon to prevent all in-flight fires or explosions
resulting from lightning. Positive steps must still be taken to prohibit ignition
sources within the fuel system.
6.3 Sources of Ignition
While there have been a number of in-flight fuel tank explosions
undoubtedly caused by lightning strikes, the exact location or source of ignition
has not been positively identified in any of these accidents. This failure is
perhaps a result of the fact that so small an amount of energy in an electrical
spark is required to cause ignition that such a spark would leave little or no other
evidence of itself (like pitting of a metal surface). It may be possible that
ignition has begun outside of the fuel system itself--for example, at a fuel vent
outlet--and then propagated inside, although there has been no proof of this.
Laboratory studies involving simulated lightning strikes to fuel tanks or
portions of an airframe containing fuel tanks have demonstrated several possible
ignition mechanisms, and investigations of the accidents involving fuel tank fires
and explosion have raised other possibilities. Possible ignition sources can be
divided into the following two broad categories.
Thermal Ignition Source
1. Direct contact of the lightning arc with the fuel-air mixture, as at a
vent outlet
Hot spot formation or complete meltthrough of a metallic tank skin 2 .
by lightning arc attachment
Electrical Ignition Sources
1. Electrical sparking between two pieces of metal conducting lightning
current, such as poorly bonded sections of a fuel line or vent tube
Sparking from an access door or filler cap (which has been struck) to 2.
its adapter assembly
Sparking among elements of a capacitive-type fuel quantity probe, 3.