V For α 1N540 diode, the reverse breakdown voltage, VBD, is 400 and the
K, is 0.93 (See Table 16.1). If α 200 ns pulse is used to damage constant,
MHz damped sine wave, the failure current for the diode approximate at 1
would be
Α I ~ = 5 . 2
Assume now that the impedance of the source from which the voltage transient
generated is 10 The voltage required to produce α current of 5.2 Α through 52.
the diode would be
-
R 'BD V~ransient '~ransient Source -
+
V MHz pulse, 200 ns wide or α 1 damped sine wave having α Therefore, α 452
peak amplitude of 452 V would cause the diode to fail.
The second circuit chosen for analysis is the simple phase-splitter amplifier
shown in Figure 16.1 5 (Reference 16.22). The first step in determining the input
current required for damage is to simplify the circuit. Again assume that the
MHz voltage source producing the transient is α damped sine wave of 1
C1 so frequency. At such α frequency the reactances of capacitors and C2 will be
V small that they may be neglected. Lkewise the 12 power supply line can be
considered to be at ac ground potential. The resultant circuit after simplification
is shown in Figure 16.16 (Reference 16.23). The circuit can be further simplified
by determining the equivalent resistances for the base and for collector circuits.
by The base-emitter junction and the base-collector junction can also be replaced
their diode equivalents to represent operation in the breakdown regions. This
simplified circuit is shown in Figure 16.17 (Reference 16.24). Also shown in
16.1 Figure 7 are the breakdown voltages and damage constants for the 2N706Β.
Note that for this transistor α damage constant for the collector-base junction is
available, though not listed in Table 16.2.
The circuit is now simplified to the point where it lends itself easily to
hand analysis. The next step is to determine which junction will fail and what
the failure mode is. The passive components are generally able to withstand
higher energies for short-duration pulses than can transistors. Therefore, the
transistor is the element to consider for damage. Failure is also assumed to occur
in the reverse biased direction.
Using the Wunsch damage model (Π Kt-%), α calculation is made to see =
whether the emitter-base junction or the collector-base junction would fail first.