17 CHAPTER
TEST TECHNIQUES FOR EVALUATION OF INDIRECT EFFECTS
17.1 Introduction
There are as yet few official standard tests or even generally recognized
test techniques for evaluation of how well electrical and electronic equipment
withstands the indirect effects of lightning. The purpose of this section is to
discuss some of the existing test techniques, to discuss some of the philosophy
behind some of the existing or evolving standards, and to suggest possible
avenues of improvement in test techniques.
The lightning current to which an aircraft may be exposed cannot be
predicted beforehand except in statistical terms. Aircraft are thus designed to
some type of model lightning flash--one which duplicates the essential
characteristics of lightning, even though the chances of any particular lightning
current actually having all those characteristics is vanishingly small. Α design
model that has strongly influenced test techniques is the severe composite
lightning model developed for the Program (Reference 17.1). This Space Shuttle
model, with some revisions, seems to be emerging as α standard for aircraft
design, testing, and certification. The model, as incorporated in present test
1.36. practice (Reference 17.2), is shown as Figure
As regards indirect effects, only the first and possibly the second return
stroke are likely to be of consequence. The wave fronts of the initial return
stroke and the restrike are not specified in Figure 17.1 (Reference 17.2), since
they are not significant for the evaluation of direct effects. In theSpaceShzcttle
MIL and in the earlier Program Lightning Protection Criteria Document
specification Bonding, Electrical and Lightning Protection for Aerospace
2 (Reference 17.3), the current is taken to rise linearly to crest in ps. Systems
Dividing the peak amplitude of 200 000 Α by α front time of 2 ps yields an
average rate of change of 100 kA/ps, α figure frequently quoted with respect to
indirect effects.
Ideally, for proof tests to determine indirect effects, α simulated lightning
current having this waveshape (or at least the waveshape of the initial stroke
would be circulated through the aircraft and the electronic equipment observed
In practice this to insure that no harmful effects would be caused by the current.
not done, since available surge generators do not have the stored energy is
required to circulate this amount of current through the inductance that would
be associated with α complete aircraft. Compromises with perfection have to be
made, and these take the following three forms.
Tests may be made on α complete aircraft, during which tests
currents of high amplitude are circulated through the aircraft and
the effects noted. In such tests the waveshape of the current may
differ radically from the waveshapes of actual lightning currents.
and are discussed in Tests of this nature might be called proof tests
Section 17.3.1.