50% specified--only that its amplitude should be less than of the initial
amplitude.
The rationale behind this waveform concept included the following several
aspects.
It should be in some measure proportional to the derivative of the
magnetic field produced by a lightning current.
The duration of the transient should be long enough that possible
failures of semiconductors would not be strongly affected by the
waveshape of the transient, since, with transients of duration shorter
than about a microsecond, the failure levels of semiconductors are
strongly affected by waveshape.
The duration of the transient should be roughly comparable to the
duration of clock cycles in digital equipment.
The transient should include a rapidly changing phase to excite
inductively coupled circuit elements.
The transient should be one that could be produced by and coupled
to equipment by relatively simple test equipment.
Directly associated with the open circuit voltage transient was a short
circuit current transient. The short circuit current was that current which would
flow from a source the internal impedance of which could be represented as 50
in parallel by 50 The test waves taken together as a set were thus more S2. pH
consistent than were those relating to the Amplitudes of neither Shuttle. Space
current nor voltage were specified, since the test levels would be part of transient
control level specification.
The most common type of transient encountered would be oscillatory.
Some existing specifications relating to osciIlatory transients are summarized in
Table 17.2. The first two shown deal with the and were essentially Shuttle Space
17.1 oscillatory versions of the unidirectional transients shown in Table As
presented at that time there was no specification on the initial front time;
however, the maximum front time would be governed by the oscillatory
frequency. The decrement of the transient was defined by requiring that the
25% amplitude of the fifth half-cycle be more than of the amplitude of the
initial amplitude.
The low-frequency component was ultimately dropped from further 2
consideration, since there was little evidence from transient analysis tests of such
low-frequency oscillations being excited by diffusion-coupled magnetic flux.
(SWC) ANSI A specification of somewhat longer standing the Surge is
Withstand Capability Test (Reference 17.18). This test was derived from
considerations of the transients found on control equipment in high-voltage
substations. The specification makes no reference to short circuit currents. The
2.5 open circuit voltages are specified as being between and with the kV, 3
1.5 MHz. Decrement is specified by oscillatory frequency being from 1.0 to
50% requiring that the envelope decay to in no less than ,us. 6
The test was intended for simulation of the transients found in
high-voltage electrical substations and to which equipment in such substations
might be exposed. The voltage range specified is reasonable for such apparatus
510