Damage such as this occurs only when a hinge or bearing has a single point
of contact through which most of the lightning current must pass. In such cases
the point(s) of hinge contact may be damaged. Hinges with multiple points of
mechanical contact are usually able to safely withstand lightning currents with
only minor pitting or erosion. For example, a piano-type hinge such as that
shown in Figure 7.12 may be considered as self-bonded provided the dc
R resistance across the hinge is less than 0.01 (Reference 7.10). In hinges where
a excessive damage occurs, additional conductivity should be provided to carry
major portion of the lightning current across the hinge to relieve it from
excessive lightning current flow. Flexible bonding jumpers of the type shown in
Figure 7.1 1 have often been installed across hinges for this purpose. In most
cases, however, these jumpers have provided little or no increase in conductivity
for lightning currents. The reason is that they almost always offer a longer and
more inductive path than do the paths directly through the hinges, even though
the resistances of the latter are high. Because of their fast rates of change,
lightning current paths are governed much more by inductance than by
7.1 1) resistance. Stahmann (Reference has demonstrated that bonding jumpers,
fact, make little or no difference in the amount of superficial pitting that in
occurs on typical piano-type control suifaces or door hinges, such as those
shown in Figure 7.12. Stahmann found the same to be true of ball joints and
other hinges utilized on control surfaces or landing gear doors, even when the dc
resistance through the hinge was as high as several ohms. No binding or other
adverse consequences were found to occur from the small amount of pitting that
did occur in Stahmann's tests of piano-type hinges and ball joints.
AIRFRAME
I
MOVABLE
CONTROL SURFACE
Piano-type hinge. 7.12 Figure
Often capable of conducting lightning stroke currents without
need for bonding jumpers.
To be sure of the ability of a particular hinge design to safely conduct
lightning currents, a test similar to Stahmann's, in which simulated lightning
currents were conducted through prototype hinge, should be performed. The a
test waveforms and current described in and Waveforms Test Lighbzirzg
for the zone in whlch the hinge is located should be used. If Techniques
excessive pitting, binding, or welding of the hinge is found to occur, additional
conductivity may be necessary. The most satisfactory way of providing this
additional conductivity may be to provide additional areas of contact in the