tance and inductance, the values of which are determined by the size of the
conductors and the distance of the conductors from adjacent ground planes and
other conductors. When these are considered, the effect of a changing magnetic
field is to produce an oscillatory open circuit voltage. shown in Figure 12.3, As
these oscillations will be superimposed on an underlying voltage proportional to
the rate of change of the magnetic field. When the internal magnetic field is of
complex waveshape (as is the usual case) and not the idealized ramp function
12.1 shown in Figures and 12.3, the resulting open circuit voltage may be of a
very complex nature. few examples will be shown in Chapter While the 14. A
maximum voltage may be difficult to predict, given the complex nature of the
superimposed oscillations, the amplitude of the envelope can at least be
12.2. and The frequency of the superim- approximated from Equations 12.1
posed oscillations tends to be inversely proportional to the conductor length.
Conductors, such as shields, grounded at one end tend to ring as quarter-wave
10 7.5 dipoles: for example, a conductor m long tends to ring at MHz. Even this
simple relationship is difficult to apply, since one conductor is seldom free of
the influence of adjacent conductors.
Aircraft wiring is grouped into bundles, the bundles usually containing
both short and long conductors. The assembly, even if exposed to a magnetic
field of simple waveshape will oscillate in a complex manner. Generally there
will be one dominant frequency with several other frequencies, usually higher,
superimposed. Each will have its own characteristic decrement. Almost the only
reliable generalization is that the cables associated with large aircraft will be
longer than the cables associated with small aircraft and will characteristically
oscillate at lower frequencies. On fighter aircraft, measurements of induced
voltages have shown the characteristic frequencies to be in the range 1 to 10
MHz.
Currents measured on bundles of conductors tend to be oscillatory, like
the voltages, as long as the conductors are part of a wiring group employing a
single-point ground concept. If the conductors are part of a wiring group
employing a multiple-point ground concept, the conductor currents tend not to
be oscillatory but to follow the underlying shape of the internal magnetic field.
Fields 12.2.2 Response to Electric
When the aircraft is struck by lightning, it is forced to assume the electric
MV field potential of the lightning flash at that point, perhaps with respect 100
to ground. The magnitude of voltage with respect to ground is of no real
importance, but the electric field intensity at the surface of the aircraft is of
importance. This electric field intensity depends upon the total amount of
charge stored on the aircraft surface and the size of the aircraft surface, and
could, in principle, be extremely high. In practice, the electric field intensity at
the surface cannot exceed more than about kVIm before intense electrical 500
discharges take place from the aircraft surface into the surrounding The air.
electric field strength will be greatest about points of small radius of curvature.
The discharges from those points will tend to reduce the electric field strength at