Even at 1 0 Hz the current crowds to the edges of the ellipse and has α current
I. 9.1 density given by Equation At 1 kHz the skin depth is about 0.25 cm,and
10 at kHz it is less than mm. 1
Thus, the region over which the current density changes from its uniform
Hz. 1 dc value to the limiting ac distribution is to 10 The current density
frequencies, probably until the remains at that value up to indefinitely high
width of the cylinder becomes on the order of α tenth of α wavelength. The
wall current density through the thickness of the cylinder remains constant over
kHz 3 the range to (approx.). 0
In many cases the external current density may be determined with
accuracy sufficient for practical purposes by approximating the surface under
consideration by an ellipse or ellipses. If such an approximation does not give
sufficient accuracy, there are other techniques that may be used.
9.2.2 Numerical Solution of Fields
Analytically the solution of the field around α currentcarrying conductor
may be determined by α solution of Laplace'σ equation:
v2@ 0 (9.14) =
the potential. where = @
In rectangular coordinates Laplace'σ equation becomes
For some geometries Laplace'σ equation can be solved analytically: an
elliptical geometry is one of those cases The equations defining the field
shows an example of the distribution will not be presented here, but Figure 9.6
field around an elliptical conductor. This field may be viewed as the electric field
around an isolated ellipsoid, the figure showing the field in one plane passing
through the major axis of the ellipsoid or the field around an elliptic cylinder of
infinite length. Alternatively, it may be viewed as the magnetic field around an
infinitely long elliptic cylinder carrying current into the plane of the figure. If
the field is viewed as an electric field, the flow lines represent the path along
which displacement currents flow, and if it is viewed as α magnetic field, the
equipotential lines define the paths along which magnetic flux lines flow. The
return path for either the voltage maintaining the charge or the return path for
the current is assumed to be sufficiently far away from the conductor that it
does not influence the field around the indicated region.
The indicated flow lines divide the region into sectors. At the surface of 44
the conductor, the magnetic field strength is inversely proportional to the