large hole in fiberglass skins such as the skin of the nose radome shown in Figure
1. Each of the component materials, glass and resin, has relatively good 4.1
voltage withstand capability; however, the many interfaces which exist between
the glass fibers and the plastic resin when the two are put together create voids
and seams which will withstand much less voltage stress before ionization and
charge mobility (breakdown) begin. Thus, an external conductor, or diverter,
must usually be placed on the outside surface of a fiberglass skin to provide a
can to which lightning flashes attach. The need for such a diverter and the place
guidelines for its proper design and location can best be understood by reviewing
the lightning attachment mechanism itself.
. l . 1 Lightning Attachment to Fiberglass Materials 7.3
1, In Chapter Section 1.2.4, we described the basic lightning breakdown
process, and in Chapter 2, Section 2.2, we considered how this process causes
attachment to an aircraft in flight. As noted there, when the intense electric field
created by the oncoming leader reaches the ionization potential of air in the
neighborhood of extremities and sharp edges on the aircraft, ionization occurs
and streamers propagate outward from the aircraft in the direction of the
oncoming leader. Since fiberglass has no electrical conductivity, the electric field
passes directly through it, which phenomenon can cause streamers to originate
from objects inside as well as outside of the fiberglass structure. What happens
may be viewed as a race between streamers propagating from conducting objects
7.13. inside and outside of the fiberglass structure, as shown in Figure
FIBERGLASS
LEADER
Streamers induced approaching leader. by Figure 7.13
Streamers occur from objects inside and outside the fiberglass
structure.
Examples are wing tips, external fuel tanks, and radomes.
Both the voltage withstand capability of the fiberglass and the distances
along alternate breakdown paths are important in establishing whether puncture
or external flashover will occur. Usually, of course, a higher intensity electric
field is necessary to permit the internal streamer to puncture the fiberglass wall
and contact the leader than would be necessary merely to draw the external
streamer through the air to the leader. As the leader approaches, the field
intensity increases until one of the streamers reaches and joins the Ieader. The