wire; a pulse current was passed along the wire, through the model, and along
the rest of the fine conductor wire to a termination resistor. The fine wire
represented the channel of the lightning arc. The input and output currents and
the current at the center of the model were measured with small transformers.
Typical results are shown in Figure 8.5. One significant point about the
results was that fast-rising incident currents excited a higher degree of oscillation
of the aircraft than did slower rising currents. The second significant point
demonstrated was that in most cases the waveform of the lightning current
passing through the center of the aircraft was sufficiently similar to the
waveform of the basic lightning current that the oscillatory component
superimposed as a result of the change in impedance between the arc channel
and the aircraft was not significantly large.
In the case of a nearby lightning flash, the electric field from the flash will
8.4, the effect could excite a dipole oscillation of the aircraft. In terms of Figure
3 1 in which the impedance of conductors and was infinite, be viewed as one
leading to complete reflection and no transmission at the entry and exit points
aircraft on a low-impedance aircraft. A dipole kind of oscillation excited on an
structure would be the typical response considered if one were evaluating the
effect on aircraft of the electromagnetic fields produced by nuclear explosions.
The period of oscillation would be proportional to the length of the aircraft;
thus, large aircraft would tend to ring at lower frequencies and higher amplitudes
than would shorter aircraft. While the response of aircraft and missile systems to
by nuclear explosions has the rapidly changing electromagnetic fields produced
-
been extensively studied, there have not been any c~rres~ondl~~-studies of the
response of aircraft to the electric fields associated with the passage of a nearby
lightning flash. Accordingly, in this record we will not treat further the case of a
nearby lightning flash, except to add the cautionary statement that it has not
been proven finally that the indirect effects associated with a nearby lightning
flash are necessarily lower than those associated with a lightning flash that
contacts the aircraft. In the case of a nearby lightning flash it would appear that
the aircraft structure would be subjected to currents of much lower amplitude
but currents much more oscillatory in nature. These lower amplitude-higher
frequency currents might lead to more upsets of sensitive electronic circuits than
- - would currents of higher amplitude and lower frequency.
The Internal Response of the Aircraft Structure 8.3
metallic aircraft is often viewed as a ~ arada ~ screen, a concept from A
electrostatics which implies that the electrical environment inside the aircraft is
separate and distinct from the environment outside. To some extent this is true
for the electrical environment inside the structure: the environment is not nearly
as harsh as is the external environment. There are, however, some important
mechanisms by which electrical energy couples to the interior of the aircraft.
The basic coupling mechanisms are shown on Figure 8.6. The first of these
relates to the electric field produced alo~lg the inner surface of the aircraft. This