those the typical low-frequency shields are intended to handle. The dkhotomy
between the requirements for shielding against high-frequency, lightning-
produced interference and those for shielding against everyday, low-frequency
interference is usually too great for both sets of requirements to be met by the
use of only one shield system.
Most commonly both sets of requirements can be met only by having one
shield system to protect against low-frequency interference and a second shield
system to protect against lightning-generated interference. The lightning shield
can usually consist of an overall braided shield on a group of conductors with
this overall shield being grounded to the aircraft structure at least at the ends.
Within the overall shield may be placed whatever types of circuits are needed.
Frequently these circuits will have a shielded conductor of their own. a In
coordinated shielded system the designers of individual circuits should have the
option of grounding such inner shields as their own requirements dictate, but
they should not have the power of dictating the treatment of the overall shield.
Such an overall shield (OAS) is shown in Figure 15.5.
The method of grounding this overall shield can have a great impact on its
effectiveness in protecting against lightning-generated interference. Figures
15.5(b) through 15.5(e) show several methods of grounding such a shield when
that shield is placed over a group of conductors being brought into an equipment
case. For best performance the OAS should be terminated on the back shell of a
connector specifically designed for such termination. The shield should make a
360" circumferential connection to the back shell of the connector. The
resistance to its mating connector shell itself should be designed to have low dc
panel connector. Most commonly, such low-resistance mating requires the use of
grounding fingers within the connector shell. Connectors without such ground-
ing fingers frequently have high resistance between the mating shells, since the
shells are frequently coated with an insulating coating to reduce problems of
corrosion. The shell of the panel connector should also provide a 360" peripheral
connection to the metal equipment case. Providing such a connection frequently
requires that paint or other coatings on the case of the equipment be removed
and the bare metal exposed.
In the absence of a 360" connector, an external pigtail is often used for
grounding the OAS, as shown in Figure 15.5(c). Such pigtails are definitely
inferior to the connector because they force an interfering current on the 360"
shield to be concentrated through the pigtail, and hence to provide a much
greater degree of magnetic coupling to the core conductors than does the
distributed current flow on a properly designed connector back shell. If such a
pigtail is used, it should be as short as possible and should terminate on the
outside of the equipment case. A pigtail of only a very few inches may introduce
inore leakage from the shield onto the inner conductors than does several-foot a
section of the shield itself.
The practice of grounding an overall shield to the inside surface of an
equipment case through a pigtail and a set of contacts in the connector is less
effective than the use of an external pigtail, partly because the length of the