The voltage withstand capability of polyurethanes and similar materials
considered for this application is very high, a characteristic that may permit large
as spans of the materials to exist between conductors in laboratory tests, such
those of Figure 7.45. The withstand capability of these dielectrics is drastically
as reduced, however, if their surfaces become scratched or cracked, might occur
in service. Thus, if a dielectric protection scheme is considered, it should be
given the lightning tests described in Lightning Test Waveforms and Techniques
for nonmetallic materials in Zone the test sample has been exposed 2A-dfter
to vibration, temperature cycling, abrasion, and any other environment that is
likely to degrade the condition of the dielectric coating. Even then, such a
protection system may become damaged by unexpected contact with a foreign
object and its degraded status go unnoticed until a lightning strike occurred.
These coatings contrast with conductive coatings, which may sustain many
abrasions or cracks with much less, if any, degradation in their protection
capability.
Dielectric coatings, at their present stage of development at least, should
not be considered, therefore, for protection of flightcritical composite
an structures except where a puncture of the coating would not create
unacceptable hazard. Rather, dielectrics are likely to be most beneficial when
they are used to supplement the performance of a primarily conductive
protection system, such as the closely spaced foil strips discussed previously.
In addition to protecting composite surfaces, it is necessary to provide a
means to safely conduct lightning currents through joints, as discussed in Section
7.3.2.3. If the composite is protected by a conductive coating and bolted joints
are used, the coating should be extended into tapered bolt holes (to make good
electrical contact with the bolts) and the bolts used to transfer current through
the joint. If adhesive bonding joints are used instead, a conducting additive
should be added to this adhesive; otherwise a different conducting path should
be provided.
If a composite is to be used in a flight-critical application, in every case the
performance of its lightning protection system should be verified by the
Report simulated lightning tests described in SAE Lightning Test Wavefomzs and
Techniques for Aerospace Vehicles and Hardware.