in the primary that links the secondary winding. The difference in these two
fluxes is the leakage flux, and it is the leakage flux that prevents the secondary
current from being as large as the primary current.
For a given transformer, the primary and secondary inductances may
either be measured on an inductance bridge or be calculated by discharging a
known capacitor through the winding and observing the frequency of oscillation.
Mutual inductance, which is related to the degree of coupling between windings,
can be determined by connecting the primary and secondary windings in series,
first in series so that the two magnetic fields set up are in the same direction
(series aiding) and then so the magnetic fields are in opposite directions (series
bucking).
Knowing the primary, secondary, and mutual inductances, one can
produce an equivalent circuit of an injection transformer. One such circuit is the
Pi circuit of Figure 17.18(b) (Reference 17.32). If the number of turns on the
primary winding is equal to the number on the secondary winding (the usual
case), the circuit reduces to that of Figure 17.1 8(c).
The amount of open circuit voltage or short circuit current that can be
transformed by a given transformer depends upon the magnetization curve of
A the core. typical curve for a core without any air gap in the magnetic path is
shown in Figure 17.19(a) (Reference 17.33). The operation of the core depends
on the type of pulse to be produced. The most difficult operation involves a
train of pulses, all of the same polarity. If the core is initially demagnetized, the
first pulse will follow path a on the magnetization curve, whereas successive
pulses will follow curve b. Since the amount of open circuit voltage that may be
produced depends upon the change in magnetic field, operation along curve b
cannot support as high a voltage as would be expected if one considers only path
a, nor one lasting for as long a period of time. If alternate positive and negative
pulses are applied, then operation along paths c and d will occur, and a much
higher output voltage may be produced. If the first pulse carries the magnetic
field along path a and then lets it relax to point 1, the second pulse will carry the
c 2. magneti~ation along path and let it relax to point The third pulse would
then carry it along path d and let it relax back to point again. I
B-H If there is an air gap in the magnetic path, the curve is flattened out
and the remnant magnetic flux in the core becomes very small. In such a case,
the core can support a series of pulses all of the same polarity and amplitude,
since operation along path e is virtually the same as that along path f.
B-H The curve of a typical ferrite core suitable for a current injection
transformer is shown in Figure 17.20 (Reference 17.34). The core dimensions
are shown in the figure. The core was a ferrite U-core with a removable end
yoke. Tf the end yoke butts closely against the pole pieces of the U-core, the
B-H core shows a clearly defined loop. The initial magnetic path, corresponding
17.1 to curve a of Figure is identified as the With gaps of 1.8 zeru-milgap. 9(a),
or 3.3 mils (.0018 or .0033 inches) on the two-pole faces, the curve flattens out,
or becomes less steep. ln each case the core begins to saturate when the magnetic
1.8 W, field reaches x 10-5 corresponding to about 3500 gauss (lines per square
centimeter).
524