F)
Ision hauls (TBO) is selected. On the astiumption
transmission and drive system failures
detectability) ficicnt magnitude (and tn. force
to be aborted, and further that
(scheduled removal) reqjuirement is imposed,
The ow MTBR. MTBF that the follows
would MTBR 1500hr of α requirement
failure rate Α !• 0.0O004 or α one-hr mission
drive and smission the tra for 0.9933 of
1
relationships satisfied in the preceding
are:
IhMT
.Β
Maclaurin'σ form of Taylor'σ and using
formula
xp~(κ R
where
R (for α I-hr mission), =reliability
sionless
α 2500-hr TBO level were to be However, if
be satisfied only by MTOR could the 500-hr I
reliability number (lower failure ratte). The
~bnp . - - -- flf Λ.. -Α U.. φ IL-. rpirbbvd ivjjaffuw. uti ivi bi.0-ha, Imuy
3MB
TO+Xr1 _Α<
Β ABO+IM AMBR-£
0.00067 - AAIBR = ___00
o.00040
XTaO - --
2500
Ξ Therefore, Α. •Β~ !5 E •! ý.o
0.0027 :5
-0.00040
lic~cthcnc-v TBFmus be~ 304hr
IT# I "Α
responding ireliabilty R ;± 0.99973.
It is paradoxical that such factois as flight
reliability and the increased cost of overhaul
degraded ly gearbox (extensive secondary
may fix the TBO interval at α level that in
quires α significant increase in the required
achieve α specified MTBPR.
Relationships defined in this maniier are
sumed to fit α simple exponential failure distri-
bution. This not only simplifies the arithmetic
volved, but enables the designer to think
terms of the inverse relationships between
number cf detail components comprising )
system and their intrinsic failure rate
Although many individual gefirbox componients
better represented by other distributions
Weibull, gamma, and lognormal - -
effect on the subsystem as α whole is such as
&mill

705-=2 Α&IcP
that. ν~λ cancellation effecta, leaving value α not do- MTSIF
are of suf- fined with sufficient precision to express design relia-
α mis- bility rc-quiremenrts.
no TOO Yh "ft of given α set of gearbox failure data to
then teepnniiasmto eel eti hrc it
cfteoertaingcar reveals. asysumtemion tcrestxcsofth imposed
loprtng, α sufihenl If in* q syrou μ ah teimeci of α necessitate
reliability cetwerotrndwlb bevdasao-
sann eosre erottedwl dfnt The system.
statemenits cnsatorireigfiuert.Omoroeti-
will begin eventually compontnts (wearing) sensilive
to dominate the failure picture as the end of their tue-
ful life is approached. Generally, those componenits
regimes lubrication boundary layer in deep operating
the picture. lit such in- the first to influence be (4-12) Ω19I
con- to state wherein α the wear will progress stances
α of the occurrence for fa'vorable become ditions
failtire mode indigenous to that new set of operating
partict'li wear state. conditions established the by
or de- example of α well-developed Fig. 4-9 gives an dirnen-
that satisfies low TRO gearbox with relatively bugged
α:curately dcflned the rancom failure characteristics assigned,
(Rd. 27). the exponential distributi.on α higher by
rclation. Fig. 4-9 represents α gearbox with α 350-hr
scheduled tria _..-- - sn.. Cý . φý I I as. _ - ii 1,0λ -1 α50
350-hr to the due However, of 0.9930. reliability
is MTDR resulting the frequency, removal scheduled
hr. (4-13) 204
Fig. 4.10 from~ Ref. 28 represents the distribution
with rela- gearbox %ι~el dc-bugged by α evidenced
tively high In thin caa- the upward inflectiorn or TBO.
concavity of the data points reveas the strong in-
0.00067 fluence of component wear-out as the TBO level is
approached.
riditecor ISimilarly, Fig, 4-10 represents α gearbox with an
I100-hr scheduled TBO, an MTBF of SUP' hr, and α
one-hr reliability of 0.9998. Ir~ this cast the scheduled
safety removal frequency results in an MTBR of 904 hr.
of α bad-
failures) Obviously, design MTBR and MTBF values sart
turn rm dependent upon the desiner'σ knowledge of repro
MTBF to 5entative failure modes and his ability to assign
reasonably accurate failure rates. Extensive test and
tacitly as- service experience with analogous componewts and
subsystem elements is essential in arriving at realistic
in- predictions. There is little published literature to aid
directly in the designer, but the selection of components with
the known lower generic failure rates always should be
the sub-. the objective. It should be recognized that generic
requirements. failure rates (indicativz of the intrinsic reliability
are characteristic of any component) cannot truly exist
ε.γ., apart from the envirvnment in which the component -
the averaging functions. Some insight into these environmental in-
to invite lucrnces is given in par. 4-2.1.1.
4-13