MCP 706-202
dials and gages.
An unobstructad view from the gun barrel must be
provided for boresight alignaent. Electrical cable,
tubing. and oquipment that must be placed in the
vicinity ef the gun sbould be locatod to prevent
damage during the romoval and replacement of the
guan. Minimum maintenance and turnaround timas
are α prumary coneidoration.
Cables and oquipment shouid be restrainod sn that
moving parts of σ waapon or system. Provisions
should bs made for romoving bot weapons (gun
barrels snd scjoining compononts) without burning
.. dy
ings wili be provided on the weapon turret, feed
chuting. ammunition capa, and otber materiel not
dosignod to withstand stepping forces.
14-2.1.2.6 Dynemic Forco
strumentad tasts of tbe sctual weapon turret on 8
mount thar simulates the flexibility profile of the heli-
copter. Weapon systems contain α scrics of shock ab-
axters that operste at diffarent raturel fraqiancies,
thus ahternataly changing the load profile during the
firing burst. Tbee shock abeorbers are characterized
1. Weapon internal machanism
2. Buffor (spring or hycraulic package)
3. Turrut siructure
4. Coanecting struts between turret and helicop-
ж
Σ. Halicopter framowork or structure.
Sinca the weapon fires at various attitudes of cie-
vetioa aad azimuth, the torques and loads vary. The
true load rvofile in statically indnterminate and
abould be obtained from ARMCOM in ihc form of
isstrumautal firing dste with all tost conditioax clear-
ly identifiod as to:
1. Amsmunition Lot No.
2. Wespon weighe
3. Firiag schadule
4. Wsapon alavation/azimuth angle for cach test
3. Stiffnses of raount base
)
Modaraie overdaign in the weapon systcen moun-
10
σ.. [*uon
ε u: roej freuognçσ ε se ndung me
nom lifo cycle. Α. fac ξ of σ0% is rocommended.
Acditionaliy. thais consiceration will provide an in-
ed meanure of capability to accommodste un-
predictable adverae conditions or nscassary stiffening

of the shock abeorbing elcments in tbe weapon
sysiem.
14-2.1.3 Types of Imtaliatiors
Guns rormally are installed in the fixed, forward
position in pods, or are mounted flexibly in remote.
Guns also may be installed in the fixed, forward posi-
tion without pods. The coniguration that best suits
the detail helicopter mission requirements should be
determined and employed.
14-2.1.3.1 Pod Instaliations
Gun pod installations usually contain the gun, the
ammunition storage and feed systemn, and the
opersting mechanisms within en aerodynamically-
shaped enclosure. Size and contour of the pod enve-
lope are selected for minimum serodynamic drag.
Construction and suspension features of the pod shall
conform to MIL-Α-8591 structurai design standards
for jettisonable stores. Pods normally are designed
for installation on cither 14 or 30-in. spaced bomb
rack mounting hooks. The design of the supporting
structure aiso should consider:
1. Location of the pod so as to permit normal ser-
vicing and maintenance of the gun, ammunition, and
operating mechanisms without removal of the pod.
Thest actions will include. as α minimum. ammuni-
tion loading and unloading. boresighting. compo-
nent chockout, and normal removal/replacement of
componcats.
2. Design of the supporting structure so as to with-
stand forces imposed by gun recoil and aerodynamic
pressures. The structure should provide proper rigici-
ty in order to minimize gun firing errors as α result of
structura! deflections.
3. Location and design of the pod to avoid aero-
dynamic interference among control surfaces, sen-
sors, and adjacent stores.
4. Asymmetrical firings occurring due to failure of
α matching gun pod.
14-2.1.3.2 Turret Installations
Turret-mounted guns are aimed and pcsitioned
remotely by means of & sight or α fire control system.
Such guns normally require remote location of am-
munition supplics, which are connectedi to the gun by
means of flexible or rigid chutes that guidc the am-
munition. Turrets normally are placed just beyond
the helicopter skin line, and require an acrodynamic
fairing in order to roduce acrodynamic drag. The
fairing design must provide clearance for the turret
internal mecharisms, and must minimize acrody-
namic torgucs against the turret drives. The fairing.