*
Tbis gust alleviation factor Α. is given as α function
of rotor disk loading, and is equal to unity for disk
loadings grater than 6 lb/φ², as shown in Fig. 5-19.
At high spoeds and for disk loadings grcater than 5,
gust load factors computed in accordance with MIL-
Σ-8698, including thc gust alleviation factor, are very
high. When mançuver loads are sup-rimposed on
thesc gust loads. an uarealistic situation results. On
the other hand, studics indicate that the thrust
capability o. rotor actually decreases with in-
creasing advance ratio. The aerodynamic limit shown
in Fig. 5-20 is calcuiated by α digital method based on
Ref. 36 which includes thc effects of stall and com-
pressibility. Also shown in Fig. 5-20 is α practical
jimit for thc same rotor bascd on flight test data. The
practical limit is α resuit of oscillstory rotor loads and
stall flutter effects, and is the controlling limit on
rotor thrust capability at high advance ratios. This
conclusion is supported by Ref. 30.
Unloading the roter by adding α wing would give
the rotor α greater margin to accept gusts. The advan-
tage, however, is not as great as might be expected,
because the rotor usually will assume the larger share
of the lift increase resuiting from gusts, as shown by
tests with an AVLABS-Bcll high-performance heii-
copter. The gust alleviation factor given by MiL-Σ-
8698 was found to be unrcalistically low for α rotor
unloaded in this manner.
An early attempt at treatment of gust effects on
rotary-wing aircraft is reported in Ref. 33. Sine-
squared gust stapes were considered instead φ
sharp-edged gusts, and α mass ratio comparablc to
that used in fixed-wing anaiysis replaced disk loading
in the determination of thc gust alleviation factor.
Fig. 5-21 shc ws the results of that study. It suggests α
gust alleviation factor considerably smaller than that
given in MiL-Σ-8698. The scope of the study, how-
ever, was insufficient to Jefine requirements for all
types of rotary-wing aircraft. Furthermore. gradual
penctratiot into the gusts, nonsteady serodynamics,
1.0
0.8
0.6
GUST-ALLEVIATION FACTOR 0.2 0.4 MIL-Σ-8698
ο 1 3 6
DISK LOADING, psf
Figure 5-19. Cust-slleviation Factor (MIL-Σ-8698)

*
AMCP 706-202
and' aeroclastic feedhack were not considered. Sub-
sequent studics (Refs. 34 and 37) attclapted to
remedy thesc deficiencies and to include unsteady
acrodynamics as well as additional variables'auch as
gust shape anid intensity, forward speed, dist loeding.
thrust cocfficicnt-solidity ratio, and advancing tip
Mach number. The design considerations derived
fron: these studies are reviewed in par. 5-4.6.2.
5-4.6.2 Gust Design Considerations
From the studics in Refs. 34 and 37 several prin-
cipal conclusions can be drawn. The gust alleviation
factors K, given in MIL.-Σ-8698 are too conservative.
The use of α rotor mass ratio μ. to determine Ξ, by
analogy with the fixed-vving approach, as suggested
in Ref. 33, also does hot give satisfactory results.
Nevertheless. gust loads cannot be ignored in rotor
design. Pending preparation of criteria to replace the
gust load requirements of MlL-Σ-8628. alernative
methods for determination of gust load factors may
be used, subject to the prior approval of the pro-
curing activity.
IHEORE TICAL AEPODINAVIC MAXIVIN: DLEP SIAL
0 20χ Δ HUEY COBRA (AH-1(
CGEFFICIEN*- 0.15 Λ >Δ MA EUVERING
ο NASA-AMES TESTS
0.10φ Δ Λ
0 05 ! PRACHICAL LINII
ol.
ο 2 0 6 08
ADVANCE RALIO »
Figure 5-26. Roior Limits as ε Function of
Advance Ratio
xe 1 α NT: - Σ-Bu4):
υδ FOR Σ" ET DIAME TER
GUST ALLE VIATIQR. FACTOR ο (1 4 SUEY RE SULTS IKEf. 331
ε
4 σ 8 lo
RUTUR MASS RATIO !' γ
Figure Σ-2σ. Results or α Lond Gust Stuáυ Compared
With Military Specification Requirements
5-25