AMCP 706-202
8 CHAPTER
AVIONIC SUBSYSTEMS DESIGN
INTRODUCTION &-I 1) (EMC/EM compatibility/intcrfercnce magnetic
must considered. be
I in general, the dcsilbn sequencing must 1 GENERAL ioflowing 8-1.
occur. astheap- efiW clctrni")is Avioics(avatio
(aiaton eectonicj ι defnodas te α- Determine the Avonis avionic requirements. 1.
plication of elenronic techniques accomplish such 2.Dtrieheaonchrctiscs io
τ diagramot:erinterfces ablonck CDnteruineth 3. flight as navigation, )ν- communication, functions
heitefcet agam. syste eonctrictal the terget and surveillance, sensivig, identificatio~ν, trol.
ar hnh system. eletricalbsclyoto 4.ε defined be will subsystems avionic The deaignation.
ntear aototesser ai eeo 4 discuss will chapter This specification. detail the by
τ'eses~asysems craft for mock-up purposes. desin rquiemets o iterliic
weith θ uiemheniots toStractcs:sbytm . Develop α schematic wiring diagram for the
withthe elioter.system.
From an operational viewpoint, the helicopter 6. Develop an interconnect diagram.
avionic cowplrement can be subdivided into (1) the 7 eeo at it
eco at it 7 and (2) the special- basic helicopter configuration,
miwoneqwpent.8. Develop α wire list.
la nlss discussed .Dvlpaneetia The batsic helicopter configuration as in
analysis EMC/EMI preliminery α Complete 10. ad weight, space, the to limited is handbook thic
ytm η o pa electronics minimurn the of requiremnents power
necessary in order to provide the basic mission capa- ELECTROMAGNETIC Α-ι.!
The of CNPTBLF RGA helicopter bility for α specific ciazz heiicopter. Jmedium
RGA CMAIIIT tactical utility, observatio'ν, light include classes
electrical/elec- of items by generated Interference lift heavy external and transport, and heavy
in α as proximity, in close iirutalled equipment tronic transpor-..
in- in an can result easily systcem, typical helicopter the ad- as is defincd equipment Special-misuion
serious- reduce that could loe, interference tolerable commun- basic the beyond ε,'ectronics ditional -
and might or equipment, airborne of usefulness the ly re- functions identification navigation, cation, -
in par. 9-11.2, defined As ineperative. it even render IFFK such missions specific as to accomplish qunired
establish shall contractor prime the 706-203, AMCP con- visibility under reduced night operation flight,
for program compatibility EMI integratcd overall an dcsig- target recognition, and target detection ditions,
helicopter. the in lound as is such control, fire integrated and nation,
optimum of an application by achieved is EMC systems. weapon aircraft and tactical gunships
iephnicM ρ~norr-χ- miannapriai anti mhin,,,ι.nn of - Avionic procurement, installation, and quaiii-
-*-*---- *-*-- - - - - the: final through stage design the earfiist from test and flight preflight bench, with cation, Along
demonstration feasibility operational or product Specifications Military defined by are requirements,
be es- shall program an EMC stage. Accordingly, MIL-STD- MIL-STD-454, MIL-STD-461, as such
will; that ;ablished MIL-Ω-5088, MIL-Β-5087, 462, MIL-STD-704,
efficiprn MIL-E.540, MIL-E-6051. and MIL-1-8700. Insure the integration of engineering. ι .
Tbc first step in avionic systcm design is to management, and de- λ1ity assurance tasks q, as thty
termine the proper location for each individual relate to EMC.
system. Because avionic systems are made up of 2. isure the efficient integration withk 1 EMC of all
several subsystems and coimponents, it is mandatory other systems an~δ subsystems.
that the total helicopter systcrr. and its environ- The first requirement for acnieving in an EMC
mental capability known. be Every avionic system avionic system is that all major components and sub-
component has temperature and vibration limE*- systems be designed, constructed, tested in comn- -,nd
tu!:ons. Before any or location is pliance de- with MIL-STD-461λ placement
termined, the inter/intra-system compatibility of the The second requirement is compliance with MIIL-
location must determined to insure that heat bi, and as an operating helicopter system, with all E-6051
) vibration will not have α detrimental effect upon the avionics and other equipme~nt installed and per.
performance of the equipment. in addition, electro- for-ning their normal functions.
Β-1