20E-902 33μ
weighted average blade angle error must be com-
pared to a spocification maximum. The weighting
factors for the angle errors along the blade are based
on the acrodynamic loading for a spocific opcratinag
condition for cither force or moment unbalance.
Usually, correcting acrodynamic force unbalance:
also will correct moment unbalance satisfactorily.
The weighted average blade angle crror may be ob-
taincd by manually averaging the sveighted bladc
angle errcrs at various stations along thc blade, or by
using an automatice blade scrodynamic balancing
machine.
Hub and spinner unbalances aiso can influence the
overall propeller balance. Even though the hub is
stetically balanceod about its axis to 0.00s5 in. times
its weight, and thc spinner is both statically force
balanced about ite axis to 0.00os in. times its weight
and dynamically moment balanced, closc dimen-
sional control and indexing mus: be maintainod to
achieve good propelier balance. Critical factors ia-
clude out-of-plane ard inplane blade retention
squarencss, axial positiorsing of the biade, axcentri-
city and squareness of the bub retention on thc pro-
peller shaft, and spinner mounting runout and tikt.
The balance reaqjiremenis of the hud and spinn:
usually are met by removing material os addin.
balance wcights.
After the paris of a propciler are balanced
separatcly. the aspcmbled propeller is balasxai
statically in cither the horicontal or vertical position
to 0.0c9s in. timas the proyeller weigit by soding
balance weights to the hut. Tbe blades thoukd br a.
cruise flight angle during this final balance to obtair
the smoothcst operstion in flight.
If additional balancing is required, it may be per-
formed on the aircraft dynamicaliy by using
systematic trial weight metbods or spocigl instra-
mentation, suck at thc pulse tynchronizer unbalanwe
indicating (PSUl) unit or : vibration analy.er.
Because of differencex in blade augular pocition and
loading. and possibly in nacelie system reaponse in
flight, it may be sarezsary to supplement ground
dyrsamic balarcing of :be propcler with infight dy-
namic balancing.
5-8.4.4 Iade Msteriade
The continuiag devezopmnent of new taarerials and
construction techixiques fuxs propelk: blades has per.
mitied substantiat weight rductions, as sunmnariced
in Fig. 5-A7. Advascod cumgoeite blade conuiruction
has the potcatial for even more improvenent.
The pau agraphe that folkaw deel with variouss kinds.
of biade materiais. Additional information is con-
twined in ANC-9.
3-74

Lr1,
5-8.4.4.1 Hellow Biades
Steel suitable for one-pioce hollow blados, or for
the spar of spar-shell bladcs, auc low-alloy soels
oquivalant to A1Sl 4350, vacuum meltod, in both the
36-40 Rc hardnews and the 40-44 Rc bardnous ranges.
These siocls must be protocted from corrosive envir-
onments. The leading edge or the entire airfoil may
be protected with erosion-resistant coatinge or
platings with laas-durable paint coatirgs on the inter-
nal surfsce.
Impact demage is a scrious probiem for a ono-pioce
hollow stecl blade. Wall thickness that may be
adoquate for carrying structural loads may be thin
cnough to dent locally. The strengtì reduction for
local impact damage is the combined effoct of the
gouge stren concentration, the locai plasticaliy
defonned material, and the strowa-raising action of
the dent. Frequent inspoction and local removal of
gouges and their plastically deformes surrounding
maierial can be uaed to protect against the effscts of
this typc of damage. Anothoe method is to protcct thc
blade with a hsrd, darmage-rcaistant piate such as
nickel or chrome. Howsver, the strength-reducing
eflects of the hasd plating on ths stocd structure must
be considcred in the initial design.
RELATIVE
WEIGHT
SOLID ALUMINUM 100%
STEEL SPAR AND SHELL 75%
STEEL SPAR AND FIBERGLAS SHELL
40%
TITANIUM SPAR ANO FIBERGLAS SHELL.
Flgere S-47. Bada Niassriao und Wrigat Redyctioe