AM 7 202
meal housing strength, shaft capability, and pressure corrected by installing a fast-acting miniature check
conditions during the pump qualification testing. valve in the return line.
Water hammer limiting is discussed ;n par. 9-4.2, Soft seals or poppets that depend upon assembly
AMCP 706-201. compression to prevent secondary leak paths around
the material may leak duc to distortion or compres-
sion under operating pressures. This can be pieventcd
9-2.9.10 Resenolr 1[)Ip 0 by incorporating static rings to protect secondary
Bootstrap reservoir design shall incorporate suffi- leak paths (Fig. 9-51).
cient piston force, in a static, no-pressure condition, The designer shall avoid use of self-locking nuts to
to facilitate reservoir servicing and bleeding. hold spring-loaded adjustments.
Reserv.iru be designed with the air bleed vent Part concentricity be dependent upon shall shall not
and high the suction outlet low. The overboard relief thread concentricity.
flow capability be sufficient to prevent reservo3ir Flow paths within valves shadl shall be considered.
damage during improper or emergency operations, Indexing radial holes in spools or placement of
such as system operation with an ovcrfilled reservoir springs can affect flow paths. Poppets with flutes can
or overfilling during reservoir servicing. rotatc with flow, and thus may be desirable in some
The designer should avoid the connection of two or designs.
more drain or vent lines together, to a common over- Inadequately designed spring guides may allow
board vent, where back pressure can cause back flow spring lands to cock spools. Center point loading at
through the second vent system. both spring ends is rec'immended. Reduction of load
With hydraulic power present in one system only, upon springs that are heat-soaked while loaded must
high rates of motion in large, tandem actuators can be a dcsign consideration. The designer should avoid
pump the fluid from the unpowered section back to tension and plated springs. For springs immersed in
Sthe return system fluid without recovering equal from fluid, etc., 17-4 PH spring material should be used
)provisions "the preuture side of the unpressurized system. Unless (refer to MIL-HDBK-5).
exist to dimp the rttur-ed fluid at a low Low-operating force valves, such as solenoid-vaive
pressure, damage to the reservoir and other low- pilot sections, should be designed with poppets since
contamina- subject to sticking from alternative to spool valves are pressure nomponents can occur. An 17-
dumping is to equip ground test carts with multiple tion (silting, etc.).
connections so that both systems may be pressurized Vent holes between two seals of differential areas,
simultaneously during checkout. incorporated such as arc ,. return-line dampers and
Test reservoirs be representative of the actua! inline balancei relief valve designs, be multiple shall shall
.system reservoir. This will allow viscosity, fluid tern- or indexed te insure that a leakage trap does not oc-
and pereture, fluid settling, flud aeration test con- cur. Urit malfunction may result if the vent chamber
ditions to be realistic, betomes filled with fluid that is not readily discharg-
able through a small vent hole.
eDirect-operated solenoid valves have ade- shall
valves Chock t d squate return spring force to overcome silting act.on shalbeis
~~~~Check 0•2 valves be installed ir subsystem return (hpsern) shall
shearing). (chip return high from pressures back prevent to as so lines
POTENTIAL diff-rential cylinder locks, acting upon flows from
LEA K PATH cylinder areas, and return cavities in components that
may fail under repeated return transient pressures.
The miniature check valve should be used for this
application since it has a faster response time than the
standard AN type. In addition, balanced areas for
lock devices are recom nended.
Check valves be install d in the pressure lines shall
of subsystems where airloads can cause a flow revet- - r
sal when system pressures are reduced because of an
II ADD SEAL operational demand upon the system. A relief check
considered shall valve be if overloading can occur at
hg) ih speeds.
. - Reguleaed pressure can be affected by transient
baick pressuues at the valve return port This can be Figure 9-51. Secondary Leak Path Seal
9-31