MCP 7 -202
The usc of titanium is being initiated in lir :σ and
fittings with significant weight savings. Techniques
fected. Α weight-cost trade-off covering the use of ii-
tanium may be performed in the final design config-
uration commitment phasc.
9-2.6.6 Dynamic Fluid Coanectious
Swivels, hoses, and coiled or torsion tubing are al-
ternatives to be considered wbere relative motion
between an actuatos and α structure must be allowed.
Becausc thesc typcs of fittings may imposc weight
and cost penaltics, other mcans of soiving thc relative
motion problem must be considered seriousiy. The
use of an articulating link betwecn the structurally
mounted and immobilized actuator and the moving
col.irol surface or other subsystem is an alternative
that has bcen used frequently. Fig. 9-20 is an examplc
of such an installation. Par. 9-4.3, AMCP 706-201,
presents information covering dynamic fluid connec-
tions.
If hoses are the only alternative. χ'osc attention
musi be given to design of the installation. The
minimum sllowable bend radius of the hose must not
be excceded during motion of the actuator. Thc hose
position relative to str. cture and areas on the actu-
ator during motion must bc analyzed in α layout
drawing in order to deternine that interference does
not exist. Ir: addition, α protective cover must be in-
stalled to protect the hosc from abrasion damage due
to vibration and γ'σ, which can cause the hose to de..
flect outside its aormal path during motion (Fig. 9.
21).
SUPPLY LIAES
ARTICULATING LI
ACTUATOR
HELICOPTER STRUCTURE
Figa re 9-20. Use of an Articulatiag Link
PYER
HOSE
PROTECTIVE COYER-
Figure 9-21. Usc of Proteccive Coves oa Hoses
9-12

Swivels may bc used in conjunction with hoscs, or
as scissor assemblics, to resolve relative motion prob-
lems. The swivel assembly rigidity minimizes vibra-
tion and accelcration problems. However. the joints
involve the usc of dynamic scals. which can result in
nuisance or catastrophic lcaks.
Tt ε use of coiled or torsional tubing or articu-
lating links is the preferred method.
9-2.6.7 Peak Power Leoels
The dctermination of peak power levels, and,
therefore, of hydraulic pump and li.sc sizc, is dctailed
in par. 9-4.6. AMCP 706-201. It is desirablc to
develop α precise knowledge of the parallel-scries
operation of the subsystems so that adequate perfor-
mance is attained at minimum weight and cost. Un-
due conservatism in hydraulic system design will
penalize helicopte: performance, insofar as weight
and power extraction are cqncerned.
The samc techniques of power system analysis that
are discussed in par. 9-4.6. AMCP 706-201. shall bc
used in establishing system peak power require-
ments. In addition, = mission profile analysis shal! be
co ducted to determine total energy requirements
and the system hcat load. Fig. 9-22 is α typical exam-
ple of α mission profile requirement.
9-2.6.R APU and Engine Starting
It is customary to use hydraulics for starting
APU'σ and turbinc engincs, since thc hydraulic star-
ting system is self-containcd and provides α capa-
bility for multiple starts. No external ciectrical or
ground hydraulic carts are required, and α hand
pump allows recharging of the accumulators fos sub-
sequent starts in the cvent that thc first stiempt is un-
successfui. Thc basic hydraulic starting system con-
sists of air- or nitrogen-charged accumulators that
are discharged through α hydraulic motor that is con-
nected machanically to the turbine engine or APU via
TAME OF F LAMIN.
CRUSE |COMAT| CPUISE
SUY 13v9
100
TRANSIENT.
00
INPUT HORSE PONER.Σ κ юі STEADWETATE
REQLAREMENTS
20
10 ю 4 я ν
MISS:ON DURATION, Am
Figure 9-22. Typical Minion R. juirewcot Profic