3. Power actuator dynamics
4. Automatic flight controls:
(α) Stability augmentation system
(β) Outer loop etabilization
(χ) Automatic trim systems.
Pilot 5. iN the feedback loop,
Frequently, tht mechanical controls and the power
actuator are analyzed together as α subsystem.
Characteristics of the mechanical controls that have.
an effect upon the responses of the servo system are:
com- system control of balance and I. Inertia
poncns
2. Damping at control stick, actuator valve,
and/or control surface
3. Friction at control system joints
4. Looseness of control system joints,
Friction can cause control system hysteresis, which
prevents the control stick from returning to the trim
positior once it is displaced. The provision of posi-
tive centering requires α preload force larger than the
value of the friction force. However, excessive con-
trol break.uAsforce around the neutral or trim posi-
tion is undesirable because it rcsults in α tendency for
the pilot to ovcr'ontrol the helicopter.
Looseries, thQ result of escemive buildup of ii
tolerances and wear at β.Warings and joints, causes
"backlash of back- effe4ts The system. tht control iq
con- and unsatisfactory can range from sloppy lash
oscillations. pilot-induced to trol characteristics
digi- with high-apeed conducted Dynamic analysis
identifies required not only computers tal or analog
characteristics of the automatic systems, but also
identifies design requirements for the mechanical
identiem.suh dsin rnetic
system, such as:
I. Balancing of certain control components, par.
τ,•ildfy thic cyclic and. Cl*'., ..... 1χ....
2. Stiffening of control elements and backup struc-
ture
3. Insta!lation of antibackl2sh springs to eliminate
looseness
4. Additional damping at stick, actuator valves,
and/or control surfaces
5. Establishment of the allowable upper limit for
Scontrol system friction,
. Major aocidents can result from improper or in-
adequate maintenance of flight control systems.
Specific aesign guidelines for maintainability of con-
Irol systems include:
I. Understand the skill level of the maintenanre
personil, their operating environment, and the type
of errors they are likely to make
2. Replace routine maintenance with on-condition
maintenance accompanied by adequate failure warn-
ing

706202 AMCP
3. Incorporate physical barriers against incorrect
assembly and installation of gcnerally similar parts.
The design insure that the omission of critical shall
fasteners either is obvious during ground runup or
cannot result in catastrophic flight. failure in
4. Realize that the same maintenance crror may be
repeated in all paths of α redundant systein
5. Human factors engineering should be applied to
design for maintainability to minimize human error.
SYSTEMS TRIM 6-5.3
The force trim system is provided in order to allow
the pilot to reduce the control force to zero when the
helicopter is trimmed along α stabilized flight path.
MIL-H-8501 requires that, for all conditions and
speeds specified, it be possible in steady-state shall
flight to trim steady longitudinal, lateral, and di-
rectional control forces to zero. At all trim con-
δ'tions, the controls shai exhibit positive self-
centering characteristics. Stick "jump" when trim is
actuated is undesirable.
Severas types of control force trim systems are des-
cribed in the paragraphs that follow.
6-5.3.1 Disconnect Trim
satisfied be can requirements quality handling The
with α mag- in combination spring preloading by α
this method of advantage principal The netic brake.
spring of the magnituo,; the However, is simplicity.
combine the system may kinematics o" force and the
to produce an objectionable kick when the magnetic
brake is released. Α damper in parallel with the mag-
brake will reduce this undesirable characitt istic; whenever the trim button is held, the magnetic brake
is disengaged from the control linkage, and, there-
feel, diign- fore, the trim, or force springs also arc
gaged. In α well-designed system, this can be an ad-
vantage, as it simplifies the input of small control dis-
placements such as those required for precise
hovering control.
6-5.3.2 Continuous TrIm
An al'ernative to the on-off system is α system in
which the trim is continuous. Upon activation of the
trim switch, the control forces are trimmed slowly to
zero. In thit system, the magnetic brakes are re-
placed by electromechanical actuators. This type of
trim can be provided readily in helicopters that are
equipped with parallel actuators for outer loop stabi-
lization. However, the two-axis (Chinese hat) 1ec-
trical trim switch on the cyclic stick grip can activate
only longitudinal and lateral trim; the directional
trim switch must be located elsewhere.
I o avoid the trim switch limitation, it is possible to
6-25