3. Bursting streus (internal toohed member) Sg:
5 - 7.095 × 10°π(rD)} tan • рві
xFR () - ]
(4-58)
ω.bere
msjor diamoter of spline, in.
Ds = cuteide diametor of spline toothn member
- Δ, + 2 × (back-up rim thickness), in.
χ rototional speed, rpm
ρ material deneity, Ib/in.
spline prossure angic, deg
Limit and ultimate margins of safcty must bc cal-
culatod using appropriate torque values in these
equations and comparing the stresses calculated with
Eqs. 4-56 and 4-57 with the allowablc yicld and ulti-
mate shcar stresscs of the reapective parts. The
stresses cslculatod by Ey. 4-58 arc compared with the
ailowable yicld and ultimate tensiie siresses of the in-
iernai tooined member.
4-3.2.3.5 Drawing Design and Control
Splines shouid be specified on thc enginccring
drawing or other document in α manner similar to
gear teoth. An enlarged, dimensioned soctional view
and α data block should be included. An even
number of teeth is preferrod for over/under wire in-
spoction purposes and manufacturing case. To pre-
vent involute undercutting and pcrmit usc of the
maximum number of manufacturing technique op.
tions, tooth numbers must be no lower than those in
Fig. 4-33.
The eniarged spline drawing (Δ./2 is α convenient
acale) should present major diameter, pitch diameter,
form diameter, minor diameter, minimum Aillet
radius, cireular tooth thickness (external), circular
space width (internal), tooth tip chamfcr, dimension
over (external) or under (internal) gage wires, and
surface finish.
The data block should present number of tocth,
diamctral pitch fraction α/β(where α repiesonts Π, -
Δ /N and & is the vaiuc of Π, when it is expressod as
the reciprocal of the addendum length). pressure
angle, base diameter, total or composite index error,
maximum deviation of parallclism tooth-to-tocth for
given kength of engagement, and psrallelism limits
with respect to part reference axis or surfaces.
Involute profile tolerancs should be presented as
data, for gage insp ction, or as α chart, for analytical
inapoction. For gage inspection techniques, major
diamcter and pitch diameter eccentricitics must be
460

ANN, MUNBER RE COMME NDEO F OR
EASE OF MANUFACTURE ABSOLUTE BIN. *JMBER TO AVOIO
UNDERCUFTIMG ANVOLUTE
Σ2
UNBER OF TEF.TH * 20
15
10
25
PRESSURE ANGLE 3, δ
Figure 4-33. invointe Spiise Dain φ es
absorbed within the limitations of the major dia-
meter and effective tooth (or space) thickness
tolerances. For externally gaged splines the maxi-
mum effective and minimum actual circular tooth
thicknesses must be spocified; while for internally
gagod splines, the minimum effective and maximum
actual circular space wicth must be determined.
When inspection with gages is specified, the
diameters of over-and-undes wires called for arc
referenced data. With analytical inspection
tochniques, tooth thickness and space width are given
as actual minimum and maximum limits, and tooth-
to-tooth spaling tolerances also must be specified. In
addition, allowable tooth lead crror should be sub-
stituted for parailelism error.
The manufacturing method must be considered
when detailing the spline. Shaper cut splines should
have α minimum chip and cutter overrun gap equal to
their total depth. The minimum relief diameter for an
internal splinc should be equal to the major diameter
plus one quarter of thc whole depth, and for an ex-
ternul spline, the minor diameter minus one quarter
of the whole depth. These diametral ciearance vglucs
also may be used for broached splines. Hobbed or
ground splines, of course, must provide overrun
clesrance for the wheel or hob radius.
4-2.2.4 Overrumiag Clutckes
Certain overrunning (free-whecling) cluich require-
ments were dascribed in par. 4-1.2.2. The lowest drive