ei AAXCP 706-202
epillow block housings tal rotor and intermediate
msin gcarboxco, and inpet/output quill aaemblies
must be joined, retainod, or mounted with α suf-
. icient number of redundant fasteners to preclude
I Joes of function fiom α single projectile. For well
separaled attachment points, four fasteners ofton suf-
fice. However, :otating shaft joints ard ccuplings
ofen require six or more fasteners. Frequeni usc of
Nanges, ribs, and abrupt soction changes in castings,
housings, * 1 simitar structures provioe effactive
stoppage of crack propagatioa, while enhancing heat
rejoction to the atmosphere. Internal ribs in oil sump
areas are desirable because of the possibility of
cracking by hydraulic ram effect in the oil as well as
dy projectile impaci.
4.1.2.1.4.3 Scif-svaliag Sanps
Another design techsiqur involves the use of self-
sealing materials in the gcarbox oil sump area. The
inost efficient material now available is defied as
Type 11 in MIL-Τ-5579. This rubberized scif-sealing
compound originalily was developed for fuel cells and
can be fabriceted to defeat cither the 7.o2-mm or the
12.7-mm threat. Another excellent defensc material
for 7.62-mm thieat is 8 cast urethane coating ap-
proximately 3/8 in. thick. With the latter material,
the design of the sump shouid be relltively simple, as
in α casting cope where the drag may -ε witharawn
without usc of breakaway core prints The cazt
coating contracts after pouring and high residual
comprersive stress results. This prestressed resilient
coa: then shrinks to close çompictely the hole leti by
the piercing bullet. The coating is relatively dense (2.0
Ib/ft² for the 7.62-mm threat), and also serves as an
excellent hcat insulator and noisc and vibration
damper. Its density is such that the rurface area to be
coated should be kept to α minium to reduce the at-
tendant penalty on sizing of the oil cooling system.
Flat shallow oil pans and srmps often provide the
most efficient configurations.
The various shaft seals must be designed so that α
direct hit cannot cause all the oil to leak from α gear-
box. This may be accomplished by using aontubbing
labyrinth or slinger seals in series with the con-
ventio.nal contacting face- or lip-type of seal and by
limiting the oil flcw rate at the inboard seal face to 8
minimum.
Where external oil coolers and lines are usod,
current specifications often require the use of
emergency o.: :hut-off valves to divert the oi directly
back to the transmission Iubrication distribution
system in the event of α cooler or line hit, thus pre-
venting total loss of oil. One such device is defined ir.
Ref. 34.
4-22

4-1.2.1.4.4 Esergeacy Lrbricatiom
1 ε preforred mcthod of reducing vuincrability is
to assure fail-safe or amergency lubricativn in the
event If total loss of ths normal lubrican: supoly.
This capahility must al!ow continved safe operation
for 30 min at minimum cruise power at mission gross
weight. Oil dams. wicks, and other fcans of re-
taining α mininum oil supply in the critical bearing
areas sre simple tochniques to employ. Ball and roller
bearing cages may be fabricated from sacrificially
wearing. self-lubricating composite materials (Ref.
35) such as polyimides, Teflon-filled Fiberglas
matrices, and siiver-piatod, high-temperature stecl.
The US Army Ballistic Rescarch Laborutorics (BRL)
has demonstratea composite idicr gears that wear off
on mcshing drive gears, thus providing α form of gear
tooth lubricstion (Res. 36).
Ref. 37 reports α successfui application of α greasc
developed specifically for helicopter gear and bearing
lubrication. However, the normal lubricants (Mil.-Λ-
7808 or MIL-Λ-23699) serve the equally important
functions of reducing frictien and cooling. Ref. 38
aescrides ine requirement thai inermai equilibrium
nnnnn Οι poeir aa uopos Bulns . kup., meu υ 10
achieve 30-min safe operation after loss of the cooling
oil. The equilibrium Can be established only by main-
ta.niag adeguate ru.ining clcaranccs and backlash in
the bearings ansd gears in the presence of the chermel
gradients that exist in the "dry" condit.on, with its
aitered frictional heat sources and niodified con-
duction, radiation, and convective heat rejection
can be of valuc in susta.ting sofe operation oniy in
such α case. If α gear or bearing loses running
clearance, α rapidly degenerative sequence of events
results in catastrophic failure. Loss of opcrating
clearance results in abnormally high heat generation
because the gear toeth and bearings operate under in-
terference conditions with attendant overloads. This
heai generation in turn produces an increasr in the
therinal gradients, resulting in α further increase in
overload and interference until the bearings seize or
the gear teeth γ:τ so hot that they undergo plastic
failure. Specific mctl.ods of preventing such oc-
currences are discussed in par. 4-4.4.3. The general
recon.mended design proceduie (Ref. 38) is as
follows:
1. Dasign for minimal frictional losses commen-
suratc witn available manufacturing ability.
2. Calculate frictional losses for the "dry running"
regime. An average triction cocfficient j = 0.16 is
suggested for the first approximation. Use chis value
with the mcan valucs for sliding velocity, and load in
the gear meghes and bearing contact areas.