within the required limits. In specisl cases — χ.γ..
structurcs that are redundant or subject to fatigue —
it may be necescary to cmploy both methods.
11-8.1 ANALYSIS
As the deveiopment progresscs, substantiating data
are prepared in accordance with the contract data re-
quirements list (CDRL). Specific data requirements
are coordinated with the Airworthincss Quali-
fication Specification (AQS) prepared and approved
for an individual helicopter program. The possible
scope of these requirements is discussed in Chapter 4
of AMCP 706-203. Chapter 9, AMCP 706-203, pre-
sents α comprehensive discussior of the final quali-
fication of the airframe. The analysis and testing per-
formed during the design phase are discu sed in this
paragraph.
At the start of the detail design effort, desiga para-
meters astablished during the preäiminery design ene
confirmod or amended. The lsads applicable to ali
airframe components unde: design fligia and ground
loading conditions miast be established and tne
critical design conditiors determined. Ir. Chapter à,
AMCP 706-201, the design losding conditions ar=
described and proccdures for il. determination oi ::-
temal load distribations are discused. Lne o: α com-
prehensive computer prograst such as NASTRA.N
(Ref. 7) is racomn: ended.
Following decermination of the leacings fhst are
critical for individual parts, in many csses stresturai
adequacy can be substantia:ed by ztress &selysis
alone. Examples are parts thst involve cither 8 single
load patt or simple retundancy, for which therefore
the streas and anelysis it boitt simple and accuraze
Other parts for which analysis sione is adequate are
simple fittings for which dynamic (fatigue) loadings
are not significant, and secondary structure and com-
ponents that are classified as nonstruciural. How-
ever, because the airframe structure generaliy in-
cludes multiple load paths for which even the most
sophisticated stress analysis methods often provicle
unreliable resuits, substantiation is based largciy
upon the results of structural tests.
11-8.2 TESTING
Portions of the structure will be tested after brief
preliminary analysis. Thcsc include fatigue-losded
primary structure, redundant structures, componenis
manufactured using new proccsscs or materials, and
castirgs with low safety factors.
Other pCitions of the structure will require de-
tailed analysis and backup testing. Ω'here expensive
proc.sses and/or large, costly sructures arc in-
volved, extensive analysis is nccessary in order to pro-

AMCP 706-202
quate by test. When both analysis and tosting are used, signifi-
cant savings in weight can be obtained with dcsigns
for which the analyais indicates α small negative or
zero margin. During testing, the areas in which
failures occur casi be strengthened. Some of thesc
areas will have sufficitent strength as it. In this way,
the minimum weight can Se achieved.
Some portions of the airframe are deaignod with
multiplc load paths. In the event that one path fails,
the others will continue to carry expected leads. It
will be neceasary to test these areas with selected load
patha failed, and with the applicable fatigue spectrum
applied, to demonatrate that the structure will con-
tinue to support all loads urtil the next mandatory in-
spection. It also is necessary that inapection of these
arcas be possuble, and particularly that portions of
structurc that are designed as fail-safe not be ob-
scared. Chapters 7, 8. and 9, AMCP 706-203, des-
crite component tosts, surveys, and demonstrations
thgt are spplicable.
Fysigue tcsting may be generalized in that only
Pav: dais (such as Σ-N) are coliected. Statisticai
analyses chat consider operating load frequency will
insure acequate structural reliability. The number of
tess conducted will determine the confidenc level
for the design. Fatigue life determination is dis-
cussed in: detail in Chapter 4, AMCP 706-201, and the
rxquired tests are outlined in Chapters 7 and 8,
AMCF 706-201.
After the heiicopter prototype is manufactured,
flight vest loads will be gathered as basic data to be
usod for structural qualification analysis and testing.
It may be necessary to redesign locally before quali-
ficstion if the flight loads are in excess of those pre-
dicted by analysis.
REFERENCES
1. Ω. Δ. Dotseth, Survivability Design Guide for US
Ármy Aircraf!, (U), USAAMRDL TR 71-
41Α(U) and TR 71-41Β(C). Eustis Directorate,
VA, November 1971.
2. 3. Ω. Turbow, et al, Crash Survival Design Guide.
USAAVLABS TR 71-72, US Army Aviation
Materici Laboratories, Fort Eustis, VA, October
1971 (Revised).
3. E. F. Bruhn ct al, Analysis and Design of Flight
Vehicle Siructures, Tri-State Offset Co., Cincifa-
nati, OH, 1965.
4. Γ. E. Maddox, ct al, Stress Analysis Mamual.
AFFDL-TR-69-42, Air Force Systems Com-
mand, WPAFB, OH, February 1970.
11-13