ANCIP 706-202
D 3-2.XIA Checlist
The following items are applicable to each or the
preceding types of engine installations and, as such,
are basic design objectives:
I. A properly designed engine enclosure shall be:
Aerodymanically a. clean
b. Sized and proportioned to the engine and its
related subsystems
c. Fastened to the airframe, not the engine,
This eliminates problems with metal fatigue
associated with engine vibrations.
d. Arranged in such a fashion that the major
portion may be opened quickly for inspection and
minor repairs, or removed entirely for major
maintenance tasks and cowling repairs
e. Adequately ventilated to prevent accumu-
lations of gases. and designed so that accumulations
of dirt, waste, or fuel may be observed without
removal of cowl sections
f. Properly drained so that no fuel is trapped in
any ground or flight attitudes. Any fuel likely to leak
into the engine compartment must be drained clear of
the helicopter through appropriate an drain system.
2. Appropriate firewalls must be provided to con-
tain fires within the engine cowling or nacelle,
3. Daily maintenance aids should be incorporated
if the configuration will permit them. These include
work platforms, inspection access doors. and sup- Ports to hold cowling or nacelle panels in an open
position hase to maintenance operations and protect
equipment against accidental dama ne d
equMaxipme a insterchacc enabliy d pag. s2.
4. Maximum interchangeability of parts be shall
incorporated into the design.
5. It should be easy for an observer at ground level
to determine that the cowling is secured properly.
6. The enclosure should have easily-accessible pro-
visions for fire extinguishing, by ground personnel,
during engine starts.
S7. All portions of the cowling that might be sub-
jected to exhaust gas impingement and to exhaust
flames in the event of an exhaust subsystem failure,
be corrosion-resistant shall steel, titanium, or other equivalent temperature-resistant alloy material. The
material selected also be determined by the shall heat
transfer analysis considering the engine heat r
tion.
8. Cowlings interfere with shall any parts not of the
engine, its operation, its accessories, or its installa-
lion.
9. Cowlings .hall be designed to provide udequate
cooling of the engines and engine accessories during
flight and ground operations.
3-4

3-2. ENGINE MOUNTING
The engine mounts be designed to withstand shall
the loads resulting from the engine torque, thrust.
and gyroscopic couple in combination with all
applicable ground, flight, and inertia loads. In addi-
tion, engine mounts withstand transient torque shall
and crash load conditions. The engine mounts and
supporting structure shall withstand the inertia
torque resulting from sudden stoppage of the turbine
rotors combined with the flight loads for 3.0 g flight.
Torque decay time histories shall be determined by
analysis of the engine characteristics, but in no ca.e
stoppage be considered shall as occurring ?n more
than 3.0 sec.
Engine mounting requirements are specified in
MIL-E-8593 and shall be followed.
Turboshaft-engine-powered helicopters may
require critical alignment of high-speed shafts. Ii is
good practice to design a high degree of accuracy into
the mount. and supporting structure, and thus
eliminate the need for adjustment on installation.
rhis require,- more intricate tooling during manu-
facturing, but insures positive shaft alignment.
For multiengine configurations, interchange-
ability is desirable and can be achieved by designing
the engine mounts so that common detail parts can
be assembled to result in opposite assemblies.
The various types of engine mountings may be
described briefly as follows:
I. A three-point-suspension type that incorporates
a gimbal or ball joint
A mounting that cantilevers the engine from the
gearbox. Few engines can be cantilever-mounted;
consequently, this method will not be discussed.
The front mount of the three-point suspension may
be either a single- or two-point configuration. The
gimbal arrangement likewise may be a single- or two-
point support. The ball joint arrangement, on the
other hand, must use the two-point support to obtain
torsional restraint for the engine. When the three.
point support is used with either the gimbal or ball
joint, it must provide engine freedom for thermal
expansion in all directions. This is accomplished by
providing lateral, axial, and vertical restraint at the
wo laterally disposed points, vertical restraint at the
single point, and torsional restraint through the two
laterally disposed points.
Other configurations using the three-point ar- rangement may place the gimbal or ball joint support
alongside the drive shaft instead of concentrically as
is commonly the case, Because the engine support
and drive shaft no longer are concentric, a simple
"trailer hitch" arrangement may be used advantage-
ously for cost savings and to provide for easier drive