Ol cnust be prorided for Jubricnion of all hati
aourora and sapplilesi is suck α way as 3o be mgst ef-
-sad puuoqug so/poe 'ç po ef: nd sq oagg
jo sucae q sd pue ague de on
lubvricate σ conjunction. ι.ε., to pre-
wont moea: so motal contact, is vary saall. Howewer, if
Mta frictiocal hae: ganraiaci in sbe conjunction ia
bigh. meuch graalor assoust of oil auet be suppliod
to sbcorb the baat aod cany is away frows the can-
jussctioa. Locai bsot buildag caa caure scoring in
srar sautà wisk subanqunsat walding and tooth
Sreakage poesible, and adao loss of internal cicarance
in bsarings that can casze apalling failuze or scizurc.
An sduquate supply of oil server to reduce the fric-
tion loares so α misimua ievet and to nsintain stabic
operating tumperalure cossisizat with tiee pouer and
cpued. Tie cooling oi) requirement in α londod cov-
tct is α disoc: function of the load istenity ar ι the
opsod. Α lightly londed geas mesh oparatin. wil.
thick film latrication wil grocrate very little frie-
tioca! baat ans willt roguire very htle cooling oil.
Suck α mesh can Ex buiricated adequately by air/oil
mist or by splages. Convenacty. α highiy loadrd gear
mesh will gooerate considerable beet and require α
copious flors of directes oil for cooling. The same is
true for botà lighily loaded and beavily Joaded
besringr.
4..1.2 Conpooei nd Anangement
An oiß systen. 8σ 8σ mininum, will consist of α
supply of ail is α gaurbox and ε sicoas of gagging oil
quantity. ε.γ., zight gless, dip sick. The sump must
Le ao Bocsied that oil circulaiion will de ac-
complished by α gear or rotsting elemeat dipping into
the sump and splashing the oi! to the gear and
bearing eiexnents. This arrangemer: for spiash lubri-
cation can te uied effectively in gearboxes with single
meehes norenali; operatisg at light ioad where the
wetted gezrbiux area provides edequate convective
cooling. Tail sctor drive and accessory drive gear-
boxes froll in thris category. Although the power trans-
misted by ats. tait rotor gearbox occasionuliy is high,
tn condition : transient and bulk heet buildup is
genrelly negligible. Gearhox heat loss at hover
power can be stansfesred effsctively from the gear.
hon houcings to the airflow caused by the retor
downwash. Less powe: is requised Curing cruise cos-
ditions, and more airflow is avails ble. Large wetied
arcas ai : coinmon for accessory drive gearboxes, and
pover requi:ereais are predictable and constant.
The splars systen is ans inherently wet sump aysienr.
On θ: other end of the spcctrunt are oil systemt
consistiry of cil pump. oil lines end pas:ages. selet
vaive, filier, nnarifokd, reguistor, oil orolel ttrermal

„ ∞F {3*
τ. . -
mre semor and gage,
premnry seates aud gmup, sight gieas, &ad muktipic oil
jote. Α acbraatic of susch α syetamn is abown in Fig. 4-
-oe ue Aq popgnoud q cns darnd po sq1 sog romoz 'τ9
Rsasey δ.vs gaar wi:à power takeoff irom 3he mcin
drive Eroia. Oil is pumped fronr the suarp tirough thc
filer, in croler, and tbe mentiold to the intarnai
eengas nad jets and finalily to bariags azd gear
soteas.
This is typicel of both wot suag and dry suenp -
precoure lubricatios syslems. Thbe dry svap systemn
sous Og dund sduare ε angg Rg Aqguou
from the "frwe" suamp aron and to foed tloc presure
-¡qn o Apdns onguos * qe ps pu: unsì
cation oil. The diry sump aysiem finds wide uce where
tbe likolibood of oil starvation exists, as in violent
fight maneuvers, or in gearbones thet are subjoct to
different functional requiremcats in α single flight, as
with = compound belicopter or convertiplane.
Änotker usc for the dry sump sysicm is with α systom
of gearboses utilizing α single lubrication system. The
oil must te scavengod from all remote gearboacs and
depositod in the preesurs pump sump ares.
on ν ν !μ ! dnnd nge
sant displacement type, sized for the pressure and
fiow rate determined by cooling requirements and
syatem pressure losses. Pumps can be designed to
maut widely varying flow requirements with single
clanent pumps possible with fows in the range of 70
gpm and spceds up tr 12,000 rpan. The pump drive
may be required to ha. : α shear section to satisfy the
requircment that no catssirophic damage de done to
the maain drive train in the event of scocssory failure.
The fiter systers should consist of α pump iniet
icreen to prevent ingestion of large particles end,
downstream of the pump, finer fitration. Α primary
disposable filter element of required fineness in α
housing wirh full flow bypass capacity. snd pessibly
with bypass indicator, should be provided. Re-
placement of this filter element will be part of thc
periodic msintenance requirements. Additional
filicrs may bc required in the system to meet fil-
tration requirements of full bypass flow, if stipulated
by the RFP or PIDS. In this case * secondary filter
sytem will be installed in the bypass syiem to assure
continued clcan oil delivery to the gears and beerings
subsequent to complete clogging of the primary filter.
Tne secondary filtretion requirements generally are
leus stringent then primary filtrstion. Filter elemenis
of the order of 40 microns suitable for secondary fil-
tratio» can be of porous bronze, siocl mcah. cr paper
skonont typas. The bronxc and siccl filtars are clean-
cisle &nd reusable wbile Uhe papes element gsnorally is
4-33