r,
" . -.
AMCP 706-20',t
design the trim circuit so that when the pilot de-
presses the trim button, the trim force for any control
axis that is out of 'rim is trimmed to zero force. If
is out of trim, all axes than one control axis more
detent would be trimmed simultanrously to zero. A
the zero disengages the actuator when arrangement
spring force has been reached.
both the rate at which the actuator operates and
the authority, or maximum value, of the feel force
provided by the continuou3 trim syhtem are sig-
nificant in determining the acceptability of the
system No specific requirements are giveii by MIL-
H-8501.
Trim Series and Parallel 6-5.3.3.
Artificial feel forces may be trimmed to zero with
both parallel and series trim. Parallel trim involves
the repositioning of the neutral (zero force) point of
the unit; thus, a new trim position for the entire con-
trol system is created. Both the magnetic brake and
the continuous trim systems afc parallel. Fig. 6-7
shows the parallel trim actuator in the schematic of
an artificial feel system.
Series trim involves the insertion of an exiendabie
link in the control system between the feel unit and
the power actuator, and produces control surface
motion with no stick motion.
means and alternate wings fixed with Helicopters
of producing thrust may require trimming of un-
boosted aerodynamic control surfaces. Elevators,
ailerons, and rudders may be trimmed by driving a
geared trim tab through electrical trim motors with
mechanical override provided. In addition, the pitch
control may be trimmed by adjusting the incidence
an&:e of the stabilizer and the elevator.
Trim is provided in order to balance, or reduce to
zero, the steady-state control forces that arise from
changes in helicopter configuration and flight con-
by the primary The vehicle is flown normally ditions.
flight controls from one flight condition to another;
to it is trimmed for stabilization, allowing time after
to change from control To use the trim hands-off. fly
one flight condition to Another is a misuse of the trim
results mineuverc into 'chicle the Trimming system.
flight normal n to the to retui the capabilit) in loss of
in loss as weli as controls are released, attitude if the
maneuver being ac- feel for the particular of the
complished.
Constant use of the trim system when it is not
required will lower the system MTBF. Failures may
occur at extremes of control travel or in an un-
comfortable helicopter attitude. An inoperative trim
system can create unusual stick forces. Runaway
parallel trim produces abnormal control forces, and
6-26

• S :r..
runaway series trim causs a change in both the con-
trol position and the fVcroe necessary to maintain
trimmed flight. The magnitudes depend upon tLc au-
system. thority of th, trim
In addition to trimming steady-state control forces
for trimming bf a trim system may be used to zero,
aerodynamic forces and moments (series trim). Trim
at the incidence of the horizontal stabilize! may be
used in single-rotor loelicopters, trim of the longi-
tudinal cyclic pitch in taneein-rotor helicopter, and
trim of the wing incidence angle in rotorcraft
equipped with wings. This aerodynamic trim may be .
programmed automatically or operated manually
Fig. 6-6 shows the installation of an automatic cyclic
actuator pitch trim
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT 6-6
6-6.1 GENERAL
Design and development of the helicopter flight
control system should include several forms of
testing. Objectives of this testing are to improve the
validity and accuracy of analytical mathematical
models, to insure proper consideration of the human
pilot as a controllcr, and to perr-it refined develop
ment under a full-scale environment.
IMPROVEMENT
In general, the mathematical model used for analy-
zing the helicopter during the preliminary design
phase considers first-order effects or characteristics
and incorporates data or approximations based upon
prior experience with similar systems, subsystems, or
devices. A margin of tolerance, again based upon
available experience, is applied to these results prior
to their assessment with respect to specification com-
pliance. During detail design, it is necessary to im-
prove the accuracy and validity of the inathcmatical
insure credible and cost-effective. model in order to
compliance with specifications. In this regard, wind
tools for are proper bench tests and hardware tunnel
application. engineering
Test Tunnel Wind 6-6.2.1
of the total and moments forces aerodynamic The
with together components parts, and its helicopter
variables respect to many of the their derivatives with
required for stability and control studies (e.g., at-
titude, control deflection, and rotor thrust), can be
obtained in the wind tunnzl. Primary interest should
focus upon the static stability derivatives and N9, M.,
4; the damping derivatives and the Z,; M., N,, L.,
control derivatives and Z,; the speed M , L , Nv,
6 6
3tability derivative M.. and the flow field character-