modes. At least one sdhll outlet for each crewman
located to provide variable airflow over the head
comfort chest. This feature significantly increases
the ventilating ard cooling modes. Detai;
guidance on environmental control and
tribution systems can be found in Refs. 19 and 20.
example analysis of heating and ventilation
merits is presented in Appendi.- A.
There should be a comprehensive investigation
the possiblc toxic elements from all of the materials
that go imo the construction of the aircraft.
sidcration must be given to the removal and the
tecuon of any toxic elements which may enter into
be generated within the crew compartments or
in for use developed are materials new As cockpit.
to tcted be must they aircraft, the of construction
impossible it is Since toxicity. possible tormine
smnt comprehensive, up-to, date list toxic a of
it is cockpit, the into way their find may which
"sary consider that each design program toxic
13-2.4.2 Winsddded Defogging and
delddg Equippm
The windshield defogging and deicing equipment
,dmuid pJUV3UIGUQ t th© o 09; "quiMnt
altitude, thermal. and weather conditions required
the mission profile of the helicopter. Detail
ments are given by MIL-T-542. Automatic
manual override controls should provided be as
propriate. In the case of anti-icing through chemicals
such as alcohol or other toxic substances, the
should be such that the fumes or liquid will not
compartments the cockpit or passeng and
advrsely passengs. affect the crew or
13-2.4.3 Actnmdeul wFrem scisl
The noise within occupied compartments shall
be in exom of the maximum allowable
prescribed in MIL-STD-1474. MIL-ST.?740,
MIL-A-8806, as applicable. MIL-S-6144 provides
general soundproot'mg specifications for the of
craft.
Speciil attention must be paid to tehlmiques
reducing noise level at its source, and to the use
special materials and techniques for insulating
ise. leference against acousticaln should be made
706-201, par. 13-3.2.2, AMCP for information on
maintaining accptable noise levels within levels.
Auxiliary systems that normally operate for longer
than min should 5 not produce an increase in
levels in occupied compartments above that
in MILA-8806.
Special missions which may require noise
lower than genetal those required by the
13-8

K
be Specifications so should have the requirements stated
specification and in the detailed procurement and special
that thee levels are not in care should be taken to insume
design exceeded.
air dis-
An 13-2.5 SIGHTS AND SIGHTING STATIONS
require- Provisions must be made for safe, efficient
sighting positioning of sights and required stations
of for direction of helicopter weapon systems. Design
guidance for both direct and indirect sights follows.
Con-
dc- 13-2..1 Drset-ewi Rgs
or
may be fied or slewable. the Direct-viewing sight
permit pilot to provided are generally Fixed sights the
in the weapons flexible weapons, fixed of operation de-
rockets. and position, stow topr-
agents Fixed sights should not restrict pilot movement or
conditions. flight during normal view of field noees-
siht hazards. Furthermore, the fixed must not interfere with
emergency exit crew movements. The sight may be
folded out of the operator's field of view until
required. Sufficient clearanoe must be provided to
permit the pilot (with gloves) to place the tight into
its operating position and to perform any requiired
adjum hand-operad r"cCd1 'en•ts.
by A direct-viewing sight flexible pantograph may
require- also be provided at the gunner's station. It generally
and is supported from the aircraft structure and is hand
directed rp- by the gunner. Alternately, the sight may be
gunners fixed to, seat and rotate with, the durbig
design target tracking and firing operations. The helicopter
enter designer must insure thut adequate clearance is
thus provided for the gunner's head, hands, and other
extremities to permit unrestricted movement of the
.ghting station installation.
Airframe and cockpit surfaces within the
operator's f. iew should have dull (antiglart) no!
leveis finishes to prevent The reflection and eye strain.
or canopy enclosure(windshiold)withintheline-of-sioht
the envelope should contain as few areas of curvature
air- and as thicaneu variations possible opti- to minimiiz
cad refraction and distortion. That portion of the
for windshield within sight-aiming the envelope should
of have adequate deicing duefogging and provisions.
sights Direct viewing have source been a major of
to serious or fatal head traumas in crashes in US
military aircraft during World War Korea, and 11,
Vietnam. It is essential that all sighting devices be
designed to minimize the potential for injury. Safety
arr noise factors to be considered
specified removal, Capabilit. 1. for instant jettisoning, or
during storage should e eragency periods be
leels provided.
Military 2. Stowed tight positions should not create ad-