Since they normally do not require periodic lubrica-
lion or inspection, contruction the allow does not
ready disassembly.
The main elements of flexible Π, shaft are cuing,
and fittings, and shaft end fittinp.
1".13.1 Terqee Capaty
The torque capacity of α flexible shaft is reduced the minimum bond radius of the shaft is reduced. The
flexible shaft undergoes the most severn type of flexu-
two ibentttyef pattwhileit un whenhit arm - al
the As revolution. ch during occur reviersals phase
bend radius decreases, the cable strands also under-
So mome against rubbing each other. The minimum
bend radius for given shaft α is dependent upon shaft
sie number of layers, types matarial. of desired life,
and the required torque output.
1441.3.2 Flexible Power Shaft
Flexible power shafts are designed to rotate in one
direction only. The torque capacity of α power-drive
core in the unwind direction be may only 50% of that
in the windup direction.
wi.β _ α-haft ¢oe.ν same of the diamete may have
saignifantly difterent charactertics. The core usual-
ly is made up of straight α single wire wrapped with
additional Isarn of wire each of which Λý wound on
the preceinj layer. Sucmssive layers alternate in
pitch direction. Cores ccording may vary to the
number of wires per layer, the number of layers of
wire, the diameter of wires, thi. wire material, the
spacing between the sad wires, the type of con-
struction. These varablas in turn, affect such core
characteriics as torque capacity, trayuverse stiff-
neo, minimum radius of curvature, efficiency, do-
When mi ming α power-drive shaft, tle following
factors must be cosdered:
I. Maximum torque that the shaft must transmit
2. speed Operating ranaes:
α. Normal, 1750 to rpm 3600
Special, β, to 10,000 rpm
ε. size, Special 20,000 small to rpm (Searing or
other means should be used to increase shaft the
speed and reduce the torque)
3. Maximum torque capacity of α possible shaft
configuration and operating effect of radius
4. Direction of rotation, preferably such that the
layer outer of wires tends to tighten
Normal 5. da•lgn 100 for million cycles at rated
speed and torque capacity
6. rating Standard conditions, and environmental
conditions such as elevated temperature and cor-
16-30

rouive atmosphere special for material considers-
tions
7. Required sa'ety factor, possibility of shuck
loading, and starting overloads.
Some of the advantages of flexible power shafts
over other types of torque-transmitting devices in-
eue
I. Power to equipment can be transmitted at odd
angles relative to the drive shaft. 2. Installation misalignments are accommodated
2 ntlainmslgmnsaeacmoae
of the location flexibility in more allowing eamigy,
equipment.
3. Driven equipment need not remain in the same
relative position to the driver during operation.
4. Torsional fluctuations can be absorbed.
5. Cost is relatively low.
6. Rotating elements arc enclosed, thereby elimi-
safety nati.γ α hazard.
16-.33 Cox"o Flexible Shafts
Flexible shafts control are designd• to minimize
the overall deluction and thereby provide the
required accuracy. TLey be usually can rotated in
either direction at speeds of less than 100 rpm. Inter-
α mittent oeratio,, to 3000 rpm, with low (lea than 5
j
min) duty cycle followed by adequate rest period&,
may be acommodated.
Thewe control amrimbles usually τ-re designed with
α casing that coscly fits the core. The end fittinp
may be attached permanently. usually They do not
require lubrication. If required, cores can be de-
so signed that there is nearly equal deflection in either
direction of rotation.
selecting When α flexible control, the following ftc-
be tors should considered:
I. Maximum torque to be transmitted
3. Shaft length, in.
4. Radius of smallest bend, in.
5. End connections for both shaft and casing
6. Size of core diameter.
Requirements for remote-control flexible shafts
with α steel casing core and arc presented in MIL-Σ-
3857. Units built to conform to this specification arm
intended for use in either clockwise or counterclock-
wise directions. The load and capacity deflection
characteristics differ, however, depending upon
whether the operation is in the winding or un-
winding direction for the outer lay"ρ ot'thc core. The
requirements of this specification should be reviewed
for applicibility to the reqairement at hand. For in-
stallations and configuratians requiring special
characteristics, manufacturers' data should be con-
suited.