1
bemcuse function their primary is to control the
from one fluid line to another. τ'on of flow
types include three-way. four-way. divertcr,
quence, and shuttle valves. Actuation may
manual, mechanical, pneumatic, or electrical.
valves identified are by method of actuatio.,,
of parts, number of positions to which the valve
be actuated, type of valving element (spool,
poppet, ball. etc.), and type of sealing,
three-way valve Α (Fig. 9-58) is one with
external port connections and is either two- or
position. The usual three-way valve has one
port that can be connected to either one or two
nate ports while closing the nonconnected
mally. thems ports are identified as pressure,
control and return (vent). When used to α
ation χ7 cylinder, the cylinder port ;σ the common
and is connected alternately to the pressure port
to the return port.
Α four-way valve (Fig. 9-59) has four external
connections, which usually are arranged so that
two are simultaneous flow paths through the
Four-way valves commonly are used to
u-6ao.Lu such in α'pfi'* ;yllindca. ".-
valve is connected so that when pressure is
one cylisdcr port, the other cylinder port is
and vice versa. Four-wa) valves normally are
Σ- •three-position. In α three-position, four-way
there is α center position in which all ports are
CYLINDER
SI PRESSURE ρ
iJ 6- /j
(Α) BLOCKED POSITION
CYLINDER
Λ
-, -~ -. - -
(Β) OPEN POSIT:ON
ε rrielement
\ Figmsr Diren.tial (Cosol Vave--Three-way 9-58.

AMCP70-0
α direc- •, divertet valve basically is threc-way valve, with
being pressure port. Flow can the common port the Common
sw- be diverted from the pressure port to either of two al-
be ternate flow paths. Diverter valves also are called di,
These version valves.
selector number Α valve functions similarly to α divcrter
can valve, except be that θ: common pressure port can
slide, connected to an unlimited number of alternate low
paths.
three Α sequence valve is one whose primary function is
three- to direct flow in α predetermined scquence between
two or more ports. common shuttle valve Α is of α type
alter- sequence valve that is pressure-actuated in such α
whsn port. Nor- manner that α preset system pressure has been
cylinder, reached, connecting the valve automatically actuates,
single- two or more flow path!.
port, Α spool covering valve controls fluid flow by and
and uncovering annular ports with lands on α sliding
spool. The number of lands and ports on the spool
port and valve body determines the porting arrangements
there that relation- can be achieved, and the geometrical
valve, norts ship between the lands and determines the
actuate timing of the valve function. With α sharp-edged land
upcrahilun ! and ι, spuuil port. "'-v- is β-ρ.u.π. In ι
applied to applications where this arrangercnt would cau.ε un-
vented, desirable pressure surges, the land edges cen be
two- or notched, tapered, or chamfered to modify the flow
valve, characteris'ics. Spool valvat are χ!assifi.δ as packed
or unpacked, depending upon vented. the sealing character-
istics. Packed spool valves use O-ring3 or some other
in body valve spool and the the between of seal type
order to achieve tight shatoff. Unpacked spool valves
possess internal leakage, depending upon the
clearance between the spool lands and the valve
usually q I body. Annular giooves are machined on the
spool lands to improve lubrication of the valve and to
equalize pressure all around the spool in order to pre-
vent binding on one side of the bore. In addition to
eliminating binding, the annular groove centers the
leakage valve, and in this position the clearuince is
minimized. Α uniqiie feature of the spool-type,
multiple-passage valve is that the end of the spool car.
be used as the actuator piston to position the valve.
Poppet-type, mpultiple-passgts valves use two or
. more flat, conical, or •herical seats on α translating
poppet. These valves lend themselves to three- or
PRESSURE four-way operation with α variety of seating and
sealing arrangements. For α solenoid-actuated, three-
way, poppet-type valve in the de-energized position,
pressure is applied to the cylinder.
"OThe sliding plate valve consists of three main
element3, α slide and two plate enclosures. The slide
is san~lwiched between the two plates, and
ontains co-ed holes and passages that mate with
9-39