or α pos dioss of it, sauzi be quickir rasovable to tiune
crowirm caz doiazmias the "sase" condition of the
wraupoc: anò/or tuke inizaedicta actiou to render the
weapon safe.
The location of θ: tusret shell permit sunob-
Aructed fering througbout θ turret limits of
coverage. Positive Niructural limsi siops shell be pro-
vides is order to pewnt tho wusrei from moving
beyoed che salxtei linits sod to maintein α projac-
tile trajoctory whied does net cndanger the aireraft
anc its stores.
Tie typz o' power sadartad to cpirate the tunet
dxpens upon θ: avzilablc totai powar, an upon
sciai belicoz ten wrign! aud ccet factors. Quick.
cis onnect couplings τà ruld be used for attachment
of the pozca srnice to the tunret.
The dezi: nor must provide α turra-muuntirg sur-
facc that has α definite planar relationakip to the
Weapon Sysiex. Datuta Fiane (soc pnr. 14-2.1.6). The
Weapon Svutem Datum Mianc is & surfsce or
refacroe plane in the belicoptes to wkich all arma.
mect, sighta, and Fire conuo' srstemas ase refarenoal.
Ihe supporung structure must provide tbe rigidiny
Itensiniy tc ma: θ: cicuisey rrquiremenes
pup
to withstand the mnechanical fones and mouients im-
pozed by the gu:σ and curret. Thbe princips! mechan-
ica: loads will reeuit from the following condinions,
applied indi iduaily or in unison:
ι.: ual loads imrt ad by the mancuvering oi
ibe heliccpter 2. Cycicei : coil foras imposed by the ι ing o'
the gun 3. Torques applies o soclerate ths gun to its
maxinuri argular velocity, or to bring the pivoting
gin to test from it maximun angular velocity of ro-
tation
4. Extornei forces auch α. those created by dis-
regard fo. Π- "NO STEP" markieg.
Acc:ssibility of the turiet muat be adequate to pe.-
mit riain enance and mnspection of the weapou.
Turet drsign should permit the royling to be
remeved vithout requiring the turr.τ to be siewod
fromn the stov.ed position. The cowting shaula not
paz through the ine of fi-: while being removed.
14-2.1 3.3 Pietie: Guus
Typica:ly instullat in helicopter doorwaya, pintle.
guns α aimed and fared mianually. Aniaunition
containers usually are locatac gcnoicly snd ar conr
nocted to the gun with flexible chutes. Some gurs can
be iatasiod with trtegra! mnmunition containers,
proviird that the wsigt-τ of tbe fuli ammuaition con-
tsiners is low.

Gu:as are inctaliod cn pintie mousis se thunt siks
centertine of tihe firiug baered is coincident vrith tihe
isncidont wità tibe CG of tihe gun and alil aitaciag
dem CG/pivot axcis, oounterbaimss mecbasviacts onm
paodintz snagag raglaneng sup soago door Os pragrusug ap
upoa the guncer ω'sils pivotiag tha.: gue. Μéscbanizal
siopa abald be provided in orcxr to maintain α preiao-
tile crejoctory wiich does sot cndnager thae sairerait.
aod apend st puaose pupgaond sq rents Ea rerer
tion τ9 ailow Sais throtzgh 95θ perccntãε aian γ cicats
to operate tbe gun and sount througkout ths fucll
range of gue travui. Α gausmer saisty bels to aacure tibe
guaner shad de providod.
14-2.1.4 Aseecison Srsrags
Ammunition sani be inaailad ia contaiwars witi
capescitice as dencribedi by the goversing beticop
catod as clooc to the gnes as posaible wiskin the bell-
copier gzons ricui Zritations and waigiut avi
balance restrictionz. The daigner mewt pro.ide the
acccsibility and clcaretace necuseury 10:
1. Lcad verl unlond tibe concsiner without removal
fror.: he pclicopter
2. Rcmove aad repluce the contciner (The dosigoaer
must conzider repiicoment of α demaged full con-
taina.)
3. Permit normal serviciag α required by te
epecific contuiner design, including lubrication, die-
nsembly of aitaching beráware, snd replscement of
container subasacmblics.
For some applications, ammuaition coniainers have
power drives. The duaigner zhat! provide the powe
se:vice as ticodea. Power service shouiel be atiachcd
using quick-disconnect couplaga.
The bse of preloadod cuntainers, whicth signifi-
cantly reduce turnaround tire, should be considerod.
Containars should contain sufficient sccesses to fa-
cilitate remedial action in eveot of haugups, and
snould be socured sppropriately to tic π sints or
mounting fixtures. When uaing linked ammunition.
helicopter vibration should be taka into sccount
because foed problems havs boer traced to thais ceust.
Vibration causes α settling of unsupp orted linked aun-
munition, making layors of telts diffecult to pull
apart. Use of spacer sbelvez or harging loope should
be considered; also note tbat drum or linkieus food
climinates this problem. Shake tasts of the storage
and food sysiern therefore shculd be made during
cevelopment.
14-5