without dictating TBO valuts. However, using the
relationships of par. 4-1.2.1.2, application of α 2000-
hr TOO requires attainment of α 6002-hc MTBF to
achieve the. I 00-hr MTBR (par. 4-1.2.1.2). Al-
though this MTBF concerns only failures of suf-
ficient importance to cause gearbox removal, it can-
vot be attained easily.
The ultimate design goal is conditional removal
without scheduled TBO levels. Achievement of this
goal requires the use of reliable and thorough diag-
nostic techniques (par. 4-2.4.2) and failure anodes
with low rates aperatioai of progression so can con-
tinue at least short-term without compromise safe- of
ty of flight.
The question of cost-eflective α overhaul thne, one
that balances the increased cost of overhaul due to
possible extensive secondary cornosion dwtage and
against the loss of residual usefuk le, is beyond the
scope coMt of this document. Α analysis of TOO based
upon direct and indirect operating cost the drive -Α
subsystems of light, medium, and heavy twin-engine
helicopter is reported in Ref. 44.
4-1.3.3 Trasssdo and Stanxrds Ratings
The use of available standards in detail design
encouraged for many reasons, not the least of ,vhich
is cost reduction. Available stindard3 can contribute
to lower costs if it becomies umn.•',χ ry to prepare
special specifications; conduct qualification tests;
compound procure special tooling; and othlZrwise
procurement, storage, supply and activities. The stan-
dards available include military (AN, MS. NAS,
AND, Federal Specifications, MIL Standards. and
and AMS) commercial (AGMA, AFBMA. SAE.
AISI, and ANSI). limitations However, the and
of ratings standards must be thoroughly understood
to prevent their misapplication,
These following are some instances in which it
better to select α nonstandard part:
ι. Excess cost or nonavailability (many published
military and commercial standards never have been
manufactured)
2. Insufficient strength or inadequate properties
(published standards for parts such as studs may not
provide the required static and fatigue strength or
corrosion rewistanoe)
3. Inadequate quality control for the criticality of
the application (many published standards include an
inspection sampling frequency that is inadequatt for
critical applications),
Sonic recommended uses of commercial standards
are dissuaed in the paragraphs that follow,
AGMA (American Gear Manufacturers Associa-
4-28

Q j
tion) design standards and specifications for gear ,
tooth bending, scoring risk, case hardening practices,
and gear precision clasifications amx excellent design
starting points. However, experience accumulated
through development and field tests will suggest
sophistications further and modifications.
Many useful standards and specifications are
published by the Society of Automotive Engineers
(SAE). The smaller locknuts size bWaring and washers
are useful, but for larger bearings the SAE parts
generally are too heavy. The thread specification
series also is ideal for use with special beating or
locknuti spline because the series includes corn- sizes
pEtible with standard bearing bores. The 30-deg
pressure angle involute spline and scrraticn standards
will suffice for most spline applications and lend
themselves well to inspection wvith simple gages. In
special instances, where greater precision is icquired
to among improve load sharing the teeth or to im..
prove positioning or location accuracy for the mating
α members, standard spline can be modified by re-
ducing the involute profile, lead, and spacin"
tolerances.
poeibc.ε bearings χ sflmowi VV Σ.11GVGF Y Iin ac-
cordance with the standard AFBMA (Anti-Friction
is Bearing Manufacturers Association) metric en- -..
velope dimensions, Bearing using the Aircraft En- <- '
' gineers Committtc (ABEC) and Roller bcearing"
Engineers Committee (RBEC) precision grades. De-.
partures from standard envelopes may be necessary
light for very series, large bore bearings; but the corn-
mon bore size, width, and outside diamct-ρ in-
crements and tolerancs should be retained to
facilitate use of standard inspection equipment by the
bearing manufacturer. Cylindrical roller diameters
and lengths will vary among suppliers and may not ρ
follow recommended values. However, individual
rollers with one of two crown kadius or drop values
-Is are from usually available geade all aerospace sup-
pliers. All ball bearing suppliers 1/32- furnish balis In
in.-diameter increments and occasional'υ in I/64-in.
increments. Standard grade tolerances in microinches
govern sphericity; ε.γ.. pin. grade 5 implies 5 spheri-
city.
Many special steels, frequently called "tool-steels",
using consumable electrode vacuum remelt
technology, are finding increasing use in helicopter
gcarbox applications. The chemistries of φ these steels
identified are only by AISI (American Iron and Steel
Institute) specifications. It is frequently necessary to
add special limits on trace elements and inclusions to
thas specifications comparable to make them to
some of the commonly used AMS (Aerospace
Material grades. Specifications)