landing. allowing the ski froodom to sek its ovn
position on the anow. Α spring or bungoe cord some-
timos is uaod to koep thc aki clear of the ground on
aow-froe runways, although some designs favor α
castor wheei at tbe aft end.
12-2 LANDING LOAD ANALYSIS
Tbe operational envirenment to which Army heli-
copters are exposod is sufficicntly scverr that it has
boen found neceseary to increese the sinking speod ro-
quiroments spocifiod in MIL-Σ-8698. The applicable
deaign cr eria are given in Chapter 4. AMCP 706-
201. The roquirements for boih symmetrical and
ssymmetricai landing conditions are discussed
thorein, irasmuch as α comprehensive dasign analy-
sis of the landing gear subsystom is requirod uuring
the preliminary design of α new model of helicopter.
Landing loads shall be determined by α rational
procuring activity. One such procedure is outlined in
MIL-Α-8862. The adoquacy of the landing gear sub-
sequently will be demonstratod by drop test. The
qualificution requirements, including the drop tost,
are dacribed in Chapter 9, AMCP 706-203.
In addition to the landing loads, the loaas created
by taxing over obstructions, turning, braking.
torving and backing aiso must be determined using
the design criteria of Chapter 4, AMCP 706-201. Thc
landang and ground-bandling loads then are distri-
tutod as sbear loads, and bending aid torsion
moments at seloctod points on the helicopter. Thc
shear loads and moments resulting from fight loads
are distributed similarhy, and the critical loads st cach
point are determinod.
Normally. the cncrgy-absorbing capability o1 the
innding srar is dcignci so thni tie ianding anú
ground-hanating Joads are critical only for the land-
ing gour sttachaent and support points. Should the
spesifiod landing or ground-handling Iaads exceod
ts flight londs, it usually is appropriate to revise the
landing guar enargy-abeorbing system to reduce the
load factor at the CG. and/or the local loads. The
airframe is overwsight and structurally inefficient if
the landing leads are critical. As with othes charac-
teristica, it is necessary to examine the trade-off
hetwocn cnergy-absorbing-system weight and air-
frame structural wuight.
12-3 AVOIDANCE OF GROUND
RESONANCE
Ground resonance occurs due to coupling between
the main rotor blades oscillating about their lag
hinges and the airframe excited at its rigid-body

AMCP 706-202
natural frequency in the roll, lateral, and/or pitching
modes. Instability can result in oecillations which
buildup suffciently to deztroy the helicopter in α
matter of seconds. Because the thoory is understood
(Refs. 5 and 6), the problem can be approachod ana-
lyticaliy during Cataif design.
The fartors governing stability are & combination
of rotor and landing gear parameters. Several of the
pa.ameters zre fixed by basic constraints beyond the
control of the landing gear designer. The critical pa-
rameters are:
1. Blade mass, offar*, and moment of inertia
2. Number of blsdes
3. Blade damping about the lag hinge
4. Rotor rpm
5. Fuselage mass
6. Fuselage polar mass moment of inertia about
the lateral and longitudinal axrs
7. Landing gear geometry
8. Tire vertical and lateral -pring rate
9. Oleo strut damping
10. Structural spring rate of gear.
Items 3,7, 8, 9, and 10 offer the most fexibility in
assessing ànd resolving ground resonanse.
following factors:
1. Nonlincar variation of the tire and oieo spring
rates cauged by changes in helicopter gross weight or
2. The percentage of gross weight supported by the
rotor
3. The effect of improper servicing on the spring
rates of the struts and tires
4. The efiect of α flat or soft tire on the spring rate.
Α detail design approach for assessing stability and
determining the parameter changes roquired to
resolve the probiem includes the following proxe-
: иnp
1. Determine the lateral, roll, snd longitudinai
rigid-body natural froquencies of the airframe, con-
sidering Items 5 through 10 plus the aforenicntioned
nonlinearities. Operational considerations will deter-
mine the range of availabic parameters in some cascs.
Α range of oleo spring rates is est -biichcd by the de-
cele:α'ion loads inposed spo: the airframe and by
the ratio among static, extended, and compressed
lengths. Tire selection is dictated by terrein, load, and
CBR, leaving some latitude in tire vertical and lateral
spring rates. The ranor of oleo-strut damping is es-
tablished by the exessity for an efficient energy-ab-
sorpticn curve. The possible rigid-body natural fre-
quencies, and the extremes of the ratio of rotor rpm
co rigid-body natural frequency, should be tabulated.
2. Α ground resonano: stability plot should be
12-11