2 ing cisvuits to sach rocket. Taxe
asignad te
dre α widaut supuir or re-
* φ parta. The cantacts wbalt be designudl to
provide kagu of the Inach
ate, to rhed tibe rockes cxhamet, and to
nomgnmet.
34-2.3.9 Ictervaie
Τ'he rocket syuiens abelf iaciude metiods to aliow
bots automstic cid manael fring of rockpis in α pre-
doensisesd quantity, segacnoe, and timning insarval.
Tiee rosuirwenanes for sosket salection wad firing re-
gséσ segdoogn gosq aup Ag pougep 4 se ascnb
specification. As α sinimuan, the opurasor controd
pannl abalf allow seiaczises of tez sucaber of rockots to
be firod singly, in paira, or in rigple si α proaci tian:
inervad. Tioe timning rmerbaa enn stigll be durignec for
rdiabilicty ased accuracy wadar al firing conditices.
14-2.3.19 Launcher Felring
Ef frangibie at breakaway mustariai is ued to cover
laucher opaninge or to sersnaalinr the rucket in-
Fallation, ibe daniga sbal wikbetand rechet blnst and
air loads at rirypaeds up to ths maxivour: aiscrouft vo-
bocity. The covers aleo shall provics protecion
sgain rzin, dust, and ocher acvere mvisonmcatai
condéticuns to which the aircraft may be subjeciod.
The dasign of the fciring stak inoure übat the fran-
gible maizrial will brea': igto soginents anali coough
so prevent damsage to rrdomes, windaiirids and
olasiic closures, cngine compopents, aircrast strue-
ture or skin, and control surfacee. The fragmen'σ
shall nor te permittod to cntar the engice insake
ducts. Some frangibie materials that have beeo uset
succcesfully are:
1. Poßyester renins with inart fil-msalerial such ss
chepped pellophanr, short jute fiburz, and σ'aort giaus
fibuxs
2. Piastic-imprognated papers
3. Foamed plastic piugs and platce.
14-R4 SAFETY CONSIDERATHONS
This paragraph specifically covrs lse inteviace o:
qqrdcy
nuegt.53 sgdoo
Proper systen safety design tuast inccrporate tbe
amplicable daie and incbaigues relatods in inacuina
saie man-machine nadatiocshipe, yo moust av'id
placing unrcalistic os coni icupuaitioras upon bsed-
wvase dorign. To be cifestive, mar-machine rrlation-
-ud μ Aagv: xacs qua popeirn oq pna odgq3
vide α logical zand conainten cocstiau σ Barougioue
tbe tife apuz of the weapco ayaene. Thair me α thot
14.10
ко…

κ
cononptaa!
buet, inutaliatic
ti-sn, eand rutrodit phanes ef the pragrum.
14-2.4.1 Sadoty Crituria
oo γ :er suoye.ts gochuen sog ausspns Aggus
prtible wis botà combet asvircam
tinss consitione. Tihis
ering darign isnglicatious
sysinas are necgaitatiad be the firat pluce by comninut
oparacions. While avery wlort munt be suade to
achieve ths maximum Sevel of safuty cuncinent wich
armamcat syeien daaign and operatica vsador all con-
ditsoan, τàze nbjactive also muet be ouasidersd vith
roepsct to the astaiamcext of maxiasen tactical effec-
tivines. Whore rigorous safuty crinscia isapoue majox
pр η
tical officioncy, an acceptable Isve' of auisty usay have
sc be eatabsicãod. This lovel mauet be basod upon α
thorough esgineering zafsty analyaic end an svalas-
tiox oi the o varall intograscal wepan eysiene.
Α feilure mode and hazaniora σñec 2nsiyais
(FMHEA) sbould be conductod for sc gun sys-
tenn/volnicle interfanse dsige. This analysis considers
the: siiects of both subeystena faibure and parsoanet
erzor duriag botk operational uer and zaintenance.
Exta frum otber roliability. maintainability, syuom
ssfoty. and human fectors aaaiyses cas be usod wien
appticeblc. Safriy hazards are defioed in MIL-STD-
882 as Cless I, Nogligible; Clax Il, Marginal; Cia~
III, Critical; and Claan IV. Catastrophic. The effect
analysis sbould idmutify failune sod.α, thcir resu:ian8
effect upos the busicrpter and parsonnel, compen-
sating provisions, and dix hezard clnasification.
Wien Class 3λ1 ρ Class IV bazards are identified,
immediate actias muat bs taker: to elininate Class IV
items &nd to suinimix: Ciaa Ill items, comisient vith
dostsa objectives. Systonu sufety rrquiravcuts are dis
cuaoed furtber in Clapxar 3, AMCr 706-293.
34-2.4.2 Fue Iatevruptar8
Fire-interrupting deviae are requirer on gun
wane?: for thc fof.nwing reareas
φ. To protaet against firing ai sonse part of the sir-
rraft arurture, roiors, landing geas, extesnal stores,
eac.
2. To protect against firilg into üε pazs of othes
firing ordoauce, such as other guns, nrckeu, or
searte gresedes
. To intsrrupt tbe weapon firv.σ when the enrot
signai betwsgn tho firs coatrol γ stem sight lise and
the grn line is cutside apecafiod τérits