706202 _AMCP
port thrust load since this type of loading tends to shown in Fig. u 16-3(Α), the beating set is known as
spread the outer ring apart at the fracture. mounted α duplaxed pair back-to-back with α
Double-row bearings are available for applications preload to equal the gage load. Higher preloada are
requiring higher radial-load capacity within ensure α limited used to that the nonthrust-carrying bearing
envelope. space Two rows of balls are held between does not become unloaded completely, which car.
singe-piece, double-grooved inner and outer rings, Dall result in skidding. Back-to-back duplex moun-
This configuration provides approximately α 50% in- tings are combined capable of carrying radial and
crease in radial load capacity over the single-row thrust loads', reversing thrust loads, and moment
bearing, and it available in both deep-gi oove and loading. They provide α rigid mount for the shaft
maximum-capacity types. because the lines bearing of contact intersect the axis
migalignment For applictions where is α factor, outside the bearing envelope. They also providle
since all intern&: two types. In precise location of the shaft self-aligning bearings are available in
one type, the outer race is ground looseness as α spherical sur- is removed.
face, yielding α standard space envelope, but with If α pair of angular contact bearings is mounted
reduced capacity. The other type employs α separate with the ρ.onthrust faces of their outer rings together,
ring spherical outer While the capacity as of this design shown in Fig. 16-3(ν), the bearing as set is known
is not reduced significantly, it has α larger outside α duplexed pair mounted face-to-face. This type of
diameter for α given basic size. mounting also can take combined radial and thrust
loads. along with reversing thrust loads. It doen not
of ability and moment-carrying the rigidity provide Bearings Contact Angular 16-3.2.2
small tolerate will but mounting, the back-to-back radial increased provide bearings contact Angular
• : amounts of misalignment. and thrust capacity, but limit the supportable ali thrust
load to In only one direction. this type of bearing, If α pair of angular contact bearings is mounted
oi with the outer-rinE thrust face of one bearing against one. shouider of the outer ring is removed ι pmost Sompletely.
The remaining small shouider serves ring u" to the nonthrust face of the outer the othr-χ
2 copleely.Theremanin smll souaer srve to bearing, the bearing set is known as α tandem pair, as
hold the bearing together, but cannot support thrust bearin τ ι. Τ his type C o mottn is γ
. loads. The bearing ntbled is ass by heating the cuter
ring and then installing the inner ring, balls, and
retainer as α preassembled unit. This construction
permits the use of α maximum ball complement and α
one-piece, machined retainer, thus yielding both high
capacity and good high-speed capability.
Angular contact bearings can be made with α wide
BACK-TO-BACK (Α) range of contact angles. As the contact angle in-
creases, thrust load capacity increases and radial load
capacity decreases. At high speeds, α bearing having α
high contact angle will experience α large amount of
ball spinning, with resultant heat generation. There-
fore, for high-speed angular contact ball bearings, the
contact angle should be kept as low as possible.
For appli.'ations in which thrust loads must be
,; (Β) FACE-TO-FACE carried in both directions, angular contact bearings
often are mounted in duplexed pairs. When α pair of
these bfarings is mounted with like faces together,
they become preloaded. Two bearings are preloaded
"if of their internal looseness is removed when their α0λ
&rnd inner clamped outer rings are together. Preload
usually is built into α ball bearing by grinding the
outer-ring thrust face ring flush with the inner while
the bearing is loa4ed axially with α given gage load.
TANDEM (C) an with is marked ring outer the ot face thrust The
identifying symbol.
When two such angular contact bearings afe
"mounted with their outer-ring thrust fam togethei, Figure 16-3. Mountag of Duplexed Ball Bearinp
16-9
• ". •. _ , .. • ., . ... .... ... . . . ... . .. ... . ............ . , • . , .. ..... . .. .. .. . .. .. . -- .. .... ..... - -