at high weight. The total power roquired infinite life critria. The throttle chop transient re- bover grow
main rotor power plus tail rotor power re- to he ver is sponse is often the greatest torque oscillatory felt in
qukied to offset main rotor torque, plus losses, the Τ.R. drive The system can be modeled for the syrteni.
rotor must counteract taW the main rotor cy- the computer the cnginc-main rotor decay also ρ.Α iiiring
thrust an aerodynamic vactor and drag couple curves, the appropriate ,λ4ic lumped mass and spring rate
from the Conventic-sal rotor or propeller analogues, and coupling discontinuities. with the taillboomn.
theory. including effacieca an factor applicable to reasonable accurascy. prcproduction Α flight strain
specific tail rotor can used be calculate the survey will provide sufficient infornmation on the Α*. tor- to,
Mmady tai rotor torque. However, experience has sional charsctcris-ýics of the tail rotor drivesystcm to
of shown that the transient torque requirements can enable substantiation be the integrity or revelation of
from the steady-state design torque. the unanticipated weak points. of 200-400%
of transient torque High levels result from sideward
Shaffing 4-3.1.4 Suherltlesil ac- from yaw wind, quartering in an advems flight
aelerations, and from unusual inik conditions Analytical methods for determining critical specds , iv-
from combinations sulting of main rotor downwash, of drive shaft are covered in Chapter α AMCP 7, 706-
tail rotor blanking from structure, aircraft and 201. As defined there, the critical speed is that ro-
adverse winds at hover or low flight speed. tational speed at which the elastic forces arc over-
and the forces unbalanced centrifugal come the by to cen introduced be inputs also Transient torque
divergently. Theoretical- increases "bow" of the shaft stall, engine compressor by rotor drive system tail the
shaft that α perfect shaft, ι.ε., α the critical speed of movements ly, throttle rapid violent flight maneuvers
dis- atid equally balanced, homogeneous, such is perfectly power loss. Under or engine abrupt (chops).
occur as pre- the windup of the tail placed about the rotating axis, will relief of conditions the abrupt
of such α shaft is inertia dicted analysis. The behavior by* combines with the flywheel ρ drive-shaft .4or
Fig 4-16. line dashied main shown effects of with secondarv . tail and rotor of the vihrstirnn in WN
approaches the of extremely high occurs the rotational speed cause aeveral cycles ru~ui 17 to iwlin-at
divergence occurs almost critical speed where torque oscillations in the drive shafting. amplitude ν,,
without warning. cycle-high this low occurring infrequently, Although
some initial un- any shaft has I to thc Practically can cause fatigue damage rc phenomenon stress
provides α centrifugal driving force components of this balance that tai rotor drive system unless the
rotational speed which increases with increasing for torsional loads well in excess np. dlesigned system are
/rotation charac- Transient Suich shaft exhibits vibration α of noirmal steady powter re~uircments. the
the solid line in Fig. 4- by in teristics such as arc shown for the tail rotor drive design ctitcria itipulated
normal operating speeds vibration levels at of the While 300% 36. AMCP are and 706-203 MIL-Τ-595Σ
power required to hover at design gross weight and
denisity altitude or 150% of the maximum power rc-
q11irnd θ~ in mzne-otuer meet sver,. fi flight .;.θ;ν
envelope, whichever is higher.
Such requirements are rather straightforward withFISCITC[F'5)
to fatigue respect design of the gear teeth and the can- .,
tilever rotor shaft in that the need for infinite life cri-
[CfR*F VSHAI ~ 5 accumulation of cyclic the high rate to due teris
SHAF1 TyrCAL ,
(rotation speed) is evident. However, with respect to
the remainder of the drive system, where start-stop{
-I cycles, throttle chops (Τ.R. inertia overruns), air-
burm engine and yaw control pedal restarts. ex- II
curvious accowad for the of the high bulk stress cycles,.____
α far lower frequenicy of accumiulation exists. In such
instimice, ith past experience the fitting of theo- iv
retical spectrum analysis to subsequent flight strain
, ~..~.I_____ is rather survcy results essential efficient design in
work. When are unknown, fatigue spectra α
rewaable design static appiroach has been to yield
tATSAF'PE *,,, minimnum strengt lev&λ to α times of 3 thc transient Figue 4-36. Shaft Speed Relatlhe Relative vs
fatigue stress used the for gear teeth and rotor shaft Vibration AmplItude
4-74