χ. Piler'σ side consoles
δ. Pilot'σ secondary panel lighting
ε. Co-pilot/gunner'σ main instrument panel
φ. Co-pilot gunner'σ side consoles
γ. Co-pilot/zunner'σ seoondary panel lighting.
Lighting rhoostats shall be capuable of continuous
«djustament from FULL "ON" to FULL "OFF" to
provide the low setings roquirod for use with light
&mplification davices such as night vision gosgles. Α
singie switch to control all cockpi: lighting shail be
providod if night vision goggles will be vsod ex-
tensively.
10-2.3 LOW INTENSITY READABILITY
Particular attention must be directod toward opti-
mizing the primary instrument lighting and edgo-lit
panels for readability at low intensity settings. All
pointer, scale marking. and nomenclature shall be
readable at 30% rated voltage when viewod from 8
distance of 32 in. under fully dark adapted con-
taining uniformity in scale design, and letter size and
font. Two instruments may differ significantly in the
total arcas of tbe dial fece marking: and the instru-
ment with the greater total marking ares wil appear
brighter. Careful attention to balancing the area
betwoun instrumonts wili roduce thc differencce. In
some cascs α resistor may be added in the lighting cir-
cuit of the instrumont with greater apparent bright-
pom if matching ζòε aroa of the dial face markings is
not practical. Additional dosign guidanre in instru-
mont lightizg design may be found in Refs. 4 and 5.
10-24 WARNING, CAUTION, AND ADVISORY
SICNALS
Α.ll warning, caution, and advisory signals shal! be
dreigned, diaplayed, and oporated in accordance with
MIL-STD-4ι1. Α wamning signal is α signal ssscnbly
indicating the existence of α hazardous condition
roquiring immediate corrective action. Α caution
signal is α signal assembly indicating the cxistance of
an impending dangerous condition requiring at-
tontion but not pocessarily immodiate action. An ad-
visory signal is : signal assambly indicating safe or
normal configuration, condition of performancs,
operation of essential equipment, or to attract at-
tention and impart information for routine action
purpoecs. Spocial consideration shall be given to
minimizisag erroneous signals, and to combining
order to provide α more credible signal for such com-
plex and critical situetions as an engine-out con-
10-2

dition. The use of α voios warnung aystan (VWS) aleo
should be considered. VWS is adyantageous par-
ticularly during mission phasos whon the crow'σ iask
loading is high and their attention is diroctod outaide
the cockpit. Under such conditions, α light signal fre-
quontly may go undotociod for long periods of time.
In addition when α problom is dotectod via α maataxr
caution or warning light, tas specific cautura or
warning light then must be located and read, and cor-
rective action initiatod or deforred, depending upon
the criticality of the problem. With Vws, tho caow is
made aware immodiately of the exact nature of the
proolem and can decide whether to initiate or defar
corroctive action without diverting attentioa from
primary tasks. However, as with α visuai overhesd,
noise and auditory luad may not provide ar cnviron-
mont conducive to the dotoction and recogsition of
aural caution or -warning signals. The final mix of
visual and auditory caution/waraing signals stad be
basod on α human factors analysis of (1) criticality,
ι.ε. time available to respond to esch caution war-
ning signal; and (2) thc viaual and audio workioad of
cach mission segment for which α caution/warning
signal is critical. The lists of warning, caution, and
advisory sigoals that follows are providod as α
suggestsd bareiine. The final conliguration must be
determinod from the subsystom failure modes and
effects analysis, and the previoualy mentioned HFE
analysis.
10-2.4.1 Warning Siguals
Warning signals should include, but not bs limited
to, the following information:
1. Engine out (identify engine if multiengine)
2. Engine fire (identify engine if multiengine)
3. Landing gear up (if retractable gear installod)
4. APU fire (if applicable)
5. Other fire 2ones (as appropriate)
6. Low/kigh rotor/argine RPM.
10-2.4.2 Caution Sheadk
Caution signals should include, but not be limitod
to, the foilowing informaticn:
1. Low trensmission oil
2. Low engine oil prossure (idontify engine if mul-
tiengine)
3. Low hydraulic fluid pressure (idontify system)
4. Hich engine oil temperature (idenify engine if
multisngine) 5. Low engine fuel prossure (identify engine if
multiongine) 6. Engine fuel pump inoperative (identify engine
if muitiangine)