AMCP 706- 202
(which also is α fiber-reinforced composite) in that
there is no yicld point.
As Part I of MiL-HDBK-17 contains con-
siderable property data on specific materials. only
gencralitics are considered herc.
There are two essential ingredients in glass-
reinforced plastics: glass fibers and resin. Α finish, or
coupling agent, that enhances adhesion between the
glass and resin usu-ily is used as α coating on the
glass, and may be considered as α third component or
as part of the reinforcement. The resin system
generally has the limiting role in determining the
chemical, thermal, and electrical properties of α lami-
nate, while the type, amount, and orientation of the
reinforcement predominate in determining the basic
mechanicat properties.
2-4.1.2 Resin Systems
Esscntially all GRP laminates arc made with ther-
mosetting resins that, when mixed with suitable cata-
lysts or curing agents, arc permanentiy converted to
the solid state. Reinforced thermoplastics (RTP).
which coniain short giass fibcrs, arc α rapidiy
growing element of the injection-molaing industry:
such parts, however, are not considersd laminates.
Probably 95% of all GRP laminates are made from
polyester, epoxy. or phenolic resins. For very-high-
temperature service (above 500°F). silicone (MIL-R-
25506 and MIL-Π-25518) and polyimide resins arc
available. These, however. have no known appli-
cations in current helicopter technology.
2-4.1.2.1 Polyesters
These are by far the most widcly used resins when
the entire GRP industry is considered. They are low
in cost, easily processed, and extremely versatiie.
Available types range from rigid to flexible; there arc
aiso grades that are fire-retardant, ultraviolet-
resistant. and highly chemical-resistant. The upper
temperature limit for long-term operation of general-
purpose grades is 200°F, aithough temperature-resis-
tant resins are available that are useful up to 500°F:.
Thesc can be formulated for rapid curing at room
tempcrature or with long pot-life for curing at ele-
vated temperature. Thus, they commonly arc used for
wet layups but prcpregs also are used frequently. Pre-
pregs that cure by ultraviolet light also are available.
Disadvantages of polyesters include high shrinkage
during cure. inherently tacky surface if cured in the
presence of air. odor, and fire hazard in wet layup
fabrication from styrene monoiner and peroxide
catalysts.
Requirements for general-purpose polyester lami-
nating resins and laminates are contained in MIL-R-
7575 and Λ-Π-383, respectively: fire-resistant resins
2-12

ond Iuminutes are dctailed in MIL-R-25042 and
MIL-Π-25395.
2-4.1.2.2 Epoxies
Epoxies probably arc the resins most frequently
used for uircraft GRP lamninates. Although about
twice as costly as polyesters or phenolics, epoxy
resins stili are inexpensive for most applicationg.
Mechanical, clectrical, and chemical-resistant
properties are excellent. Adhesion to most substrates
is very good, and cure shrinkage and moisture ab-
sorption are low. Temperature resisiance of general-
purposc types is intermediate between that of poly-
esters and phenolics. Formulation and fabrication
possibilities are extremcly versatilc. As with poly-
esters, epoxies can be formulated for uses such as wet
layups or prepregs for room-temperature or elevated-
temperature curing, and for fire-rctardancy. The
choice of curing agent plays α major part in de-
termining curing characteristics, temperature resis-
tance, chemical resistance, flexibility, etc. In addition,
α variety of modifiers and fillers is available to pro-
vide speciñχ quaiities.
There are relatively few disadvantages with epoxy
resins. However. becausc an.ine curing agents that
are commonly used in room temperature curing for-
mulations may cause severe dermatitis, skin contact
must be avoided. MIL-R-9300 contains require-
ments for epoxy laminating resins, while
requirements for epoxy laminates are covered in
MI1.-Π-25421.
2–4.1.2.3 Phenolics
Phenohe resins are used primarily in GRP appli-
cations where an inexpensive material with heat re-
sistance up to 500°F and/or nonflammability is re-
quired. Excellent electrical propertics also are ob-
tained. Because water is produced and released in the
cuting reaction. relatively high molding pressure is
required in order to prevent porosity in phenolic
laminates. Prepregs nearly always are used.
Μ11.-R-9299 and MIL-Π-25515 cover the require-
ments for phenolic Jamunating resins and phenolic
laminates, respectively.
2-4.1.3 Types of Reinforcement
Glass reinforcement is avaßlable in several basic
forms, and in α wide variety of specific constructions
within these basic categories. Those forms conmon-
Iy used in GRP Jamirates include woven fabric.
chopped fiber mat, and ronwoven continuous tapes
or roving. Nearly all of these are derived from con-
tinuous filaments of 0.00023, 0.00028, or 0.00038 in
nominal diameter. Numerous standard yarn ccn
structions are available, with varying numbers of