Detection methods may be classificd as relsted to
the internal oil system or external to the oil system,
and include:
1. Oil system dependent:
α. Spectrographic oil analysis
β. Electronic or electro-optical oil monitoring
χ. Oil filter differential presure
δ. In-line electrical resistance filter grids
χ. Eloctric chip detectors
φ. Magnetic chip collector plugs.
2. Independent of oil system.
α. Ncise analysis
β. Vibration monitoring
χ. Temperature mocasurement.
Spectrographic oil analysis has proven expensive
and relatively unreliable because poor correlation
exists betwcen faisure severity and detection. Littlc is
sctually known concerning failure, therefore, diag-
nosis and prognosis sse impossiblc.
Oil monitoring remains in the evalvation stage:
some techniques have proven totally uscless whilc
others show some promisc.
Oil filter differential pressure can be correlated
quitę weii witin iaiiure progrcssion raie of bcari.:γ
when the sate of change of differential pressur is
examinea. Uscfulness of this system is compremis.δ.
however. by the accumulation of normgl tvear. dirt.
and contamination partichs. Visual inspection of the
filer element debris by ε. perienced tochnicians can
detcrminc tbe generic failu:ζ mode bui not the lo-
cation.
Filter grids are best employel in = fastion similar
to use of oil monitoring. The bugic dificrcnce is that
the fiher grid panses siaiber consan.inant particles,
bopefully retaininuy, only the lerger metal failure
Nakes. The pesuertage ol grid cogging is detocted
and may be coaverted clectrically to α ratc-of-change
display.
Chip Getections have bern used extensively in
Army belicoptess for two decades. The debris par-
licies are captured &.agnetir ally to bridge electrical
contuct points, which, in tura, energize α caution
fight. The usefuinens of this method is dependent
upon the kocation of the detector and the resulting
crew actioo. Failure indication often resuits from the:
dow sccumulaticn of norma! wear debris, and al: too
ofien the crew progsosis reaunlts in & crission abori to
invpaxigase tbe cause.
Use of chip coßlector plugs empiasises an atlanpa
at botter dlisgo-seis in τàas generally α largs number of
plugs with grester debris storage capaciy and ν:
electrical caution pond light are uood to sid in locsi-
zation of α failare to σ specific area vr moduie. In-
epoctiou is sccomplished at daily os reriodic inter-

Α#CP 706-202
vals and sufficient debris colection is usually prescnt
to permit an expericnced technician to identify the
failure mode. Good euccess has been claimed for such
α system on commercial air carrier flects, but uccess
in helicopter adaptation is complctely dependent
upon well-designed instailations that entrap and
localize failure debris, convenient and acccasible de-
tector locations, and experienced technicians to cor-
relate findings with other available diagnostics and tc
schedule maintenance accurately.
Vibratio. monitoring and noisc analysis differ only
in the sensing tochniquee. Accelerometers or other
forms of contacting vibration sensorz memure vi-
bration, while microphone sensors measure noisc.
Substantial rescarch and devclopinent efforis are
bcing mad. on these systems. Rujimentary go-no-go
syste ms with α warning threshold signal requiring
engine shutdown have long beers used in turbine
engine instailations. The real chalknge lies in the
electronic signal processing and its conversion into an
identification and quantitative auscsament of the
failure mode. Signal analysis is being investigated by
such techniques as auto-correiations, Fourier trans-
form analyais, power spactral density caamination,
cross power spectral density, amplitude probability
distribution, an.λ real time classification of wave-
form by convolution of otber techniques (Ref. 107).
The operational succcas of any such system is de-
pendent upon its ability to isolate the faulty com-
ponent signature from the background created by
oiher interaal and external forced and resonant vi-
brations, side: bauda, and beat frequencies, at an
carlicr time than the chip detector, and to renain on-
line to monitor the rate of progrenion of failure of
the particular componçat. Ónly in this manner can
ine remaining usefui safe ife be preáicicc, and mzin-
tenance scheduled wisely. The uitimacc goal of these
programs is sutomatic identificatioa and prognosis
as well as detection. This goal requiras compre-
ν ν
dividually and in combination, along with improvod
sonsor reliability and an analysis system haviag 8
minimnum reliability an order of magniiude grester
than that of the drive system being monitored.
Temperature mcasurement sysicos, Iimited et
precni to rdatively integratea! bulk semperature
macasurement, seldonns can detocs other than very ad-
vanaud (virtually omeigency condition) failrres.
Capability improrsment roquires α muititude of in-
dividuai componant aonsors combinos with rrto-of-
change analysis correctad for tese line variation in
bulk environepcnt temperaisiua.
Rapid inprovemants iu diagnostis for brlicoptes
4-71