)
AMCP 706-202
Α variation of the cone check valve is the restric- valve, defined as the lAkage pressure where flow
tion check valve. In this type, full flow is allowed in reaches sonme specified value. The cracking pressure
forward direction, de while α restricted flow is ob- always is set below the allowable working pressure of
taimed in the reverse meaps direction by of α small the tank or system, and commonly is not more than
the orilice in conical seating element. This type of ac- 110% of normal Τ operating pressure. capac;- he rated
tion cannot be achieved in α ball check valve. ty usually is established for flows at pressures 10%
Poppet check valves consist of α mushroom .shaped greater than the pressi,'• setting of the relief valve.
poppm, with the stem closely rseat guided in the valve The pressure is some value below the cracking
body and the head sealing against α flat or ta-3ered pressur., dependir4 upon the closure configuration;
circular scat. In this valve, flow forces in the forward α restat pressure of 95% of cracking paivsure is com-
direction lift the head of the poppet off the seat, and mon.
flow proceeds through the stem of the poppet, Relief valves may be either direct-acting or piloted.
around the head. and through the body of the va: Diret-acting valves can be either of the conven- .
general, At In poppet-type element check valves have less tional type, where the control moves ielative
pressure drop for α given fluw rate than do either to the itat, or of the inverted type, where the smat
cone or ball types. Poppet chock valves can be moves relative to the control element.
desllned so as to eliminate any tendency toward For airborne aelief applicatione, the valve body is
chatter or hanmenring by the incorporation of damp- desigi~ed for minimum weight, consistent with
ing :ν chambers the valve. Because of the close pressure rating, and for flows passage of high with
clesiances between the poppet stem and the valve minimum pressure loss. Lightweight construction
body, contamination can cause sticking aid leakage. materials, such as aluminum, arc used extensively. To
Popoet check valves require more parts than ball or achieve minimum prtssure drop, some manufac-
cone types, and. therefore, usually turers are more costly. use α venturi design in the discharge side, while
They arc used most commonly in applications where other- enlarge the outlet port even to the extent of
it is desirablc to improve flow characteristics, using larger connections.
8 .Λ. o... TFL " τ-• •. -. .. .. . ; . -
pressure buildup until relief pressure is reached. The
most common element usod to establish the α load is
The primary usv of relief valves is to controi fluid compession spring. Weights could accomplish the
pressure in α tank or cischargiug system by excess same purpose, but seldom are used.
flow to an area of lower pressure. Α relief valve is α Is
prsure-relieving device that opens automatically
when α predetermined pressure is reached. Relief
F.) ζ.-1 cr valves may have α full opening "pop" action, or may ___.I
open in proportion to overpressure. Valves that open .4, ct.• __ζ• to full flow generally arc referred to as safety rapidly IJm[1
valves or pop valves, and are α special considered
reie alve. ρ fomof
consis.σ Α relief vilve of α valve body, α reference
load, and α closure that serves element as α control "ii!ŽI"
+ to linked is load reference Ihe 9-57). (Fig. seat and
BALL (Β)CONICAL- closure, the and opposes the pressure buildup in the (Α)
POPPET system. tank or The magnitude of the load deter-
mines relief the preusare setting. As the internal α--
4 premsur. increases to neadly the relief pressure system
neoessary to balance the reference load, leakapc
usually begins. When the internal pressure reaches
the relief pressure level, the valvc opens and dis-
* air. charges the upstream As internal pressure
decreases below the set pressure, the refircnce load
opposing the pressure force closes the valve.
(C) V-POPPET (Δ) PISTON Α relief vJvc is considered to have good operating
I characteristics when the pressure for rated flow and
"eseat closely approaches the cracking precure. The
cracking pressure is the relief pressure setting of the Figure 9-57. Relief Vaives
9-37