* I
namec than code number 1 by hetter known hy lie'
lerin copper used when the material 99.4'4 cxceds is
purnty. The principal alloying agent bra... zinc, of is
v.hile tin the principal alloying agnin in bronie. Thc is
beryllium coppers have sinall percentajges of heryl-
remarkably hard. hiph-modulus. u producing hum,.
mat erial. high-strength, inonsparking
readily in all alloys arc ca.st copper and copp~ρ The
The allo.ýσ are cold- various castling processes. the of
drawn. and are capahleof being rolled, formed catsly,
they arc rolled, cx- hot-%orking and flanged. ν I spun,
of- forged. The machinability and truded. pierced,
low For sand castings, copper alloys is excellent.
remosing the are used for and coarse speeds feed--
better re- tool life. It increast ito in order scale ito is
and pickling, sand blasting the scale by move
all the readily by are copper alloys The %elded
con- their thermal high although processes, sselding
brating The,, arc adaptable α problemi. ito ductivit) ι%
to solder. of metals the eiasiest and are ;ill
OFfl~;SIII- 2-2. FL:cTOI.Y~χ (1IN
2-2.3 MEITALST AmeO O 1SM1-
MIL-STD.889. in as defined metals, Dissimilar
applica- helicopter together used not should be in
ade- lated insu surfaces are ating μ thc unless tinis τ\ q dissimilar two between . is used tape When quately.
Σ metals, such as in the mounting of α magnesium gear-
box toa~ν airframe, the contractor miust in- adurnintm
as torque mounting loss oi- will no be there sure that
result of normal usage and vibrations.
Metali can be grouped in four categories, as shown
in Table 2-3
Metals grouped in any one of the in calegorits
Table can 2-3 considered similar to one another, rye
groups should those metals placed in different while
be considered dissimilar to one The cate- -unoher.
gorization does not to fasteners such as ri- apply -
vets, bolts, nuts, and washers that are comrponent --
are painted prior parts of assemblies and usually ito
being used. Instead, the metels referred to arc surface
in- zinc covers parts, all mnetals. example, zinc F-or
eluding castings and zinc-coated paits.
TABLE 2-3
ALLOYS AND OF METALS GROUPING
IL-STD-889) (Μ
~ ~McGraw-tfill,
GFUU' 5I'Μ AD I
AND UM'I.1UKI OYS At 6061 5351, 1410 Al !.",2 Ei`,τ,
At AND IllR 101 Α'.~lI . ANO All PNI (;ROUI' τ'ADMIiIM 11
THEl AIDIMItRIIK All CIYS GllILIr' (INCIIDIND Irl 1,
All ANDLHIR~λ (,ι I ANU Il TIN IRN I 0ι~lDUI' EAC!).
AIlNI 1SS SIFELS) lEXlCu'il
VIER Π1 (,OLD. MINUM NICKEL Sit C01111. I'll MILIM GRUPI
TITANIUM. COBA, AND AllIOYS AND 1110111 1`4ODIlUM
SIAINI.LSS STE El Σ AtOL itlAP111fI
______

AMCP 705-202
Par. 2-2.2.2 details the use of alumninum alloys in
construction. Aluminum alloys used in 11clicopter
may contain copper ot zinc as an cs- helicoýptcrs
sent ial const it uent. In sheet form, thesecalloys rcsus-
ceptihlc corrosive action resulting ito in loss α of 1
with- becomes brittle the material, which of strength
change. Aluminum alloys evidence surface of oiut
magnesium and silicon. and magnecsium, containing
the essential alloying constituents arc chomniumn as
under prolonged weathering mnuch more stable con-
containing the aluminum alloy% dition% than are
copper or zun::.4
to zinc as α coating behaves similarly Cadmium
of fer- piotection electrochemical mectal hi.-affording
Cadmium plating thus against corrosion. roins% metals
same group into the ferrous metals used to put can he:
dc- Α α similarity. giving them al~oys. aluminum α%5
in processes can found he of coating tailed ditscutsion
sur- metal two dissimilar general, when 2-tv. In π~ar-
α corrosive one anothcr, with come in contact faces
action called galvanic action can take place. Coating
are iitals used as thin layers between dissimilar
corrosion. of type this prevent to mietals
with metals of position the illustrates 2-4 Table
ti.lt su ce ~. of lack __ρ .η V red fth rIit
action. galvanic to
2-3 NONMETALLIC MATERIALS
GENERAL 2-3.1 α
This paragraph discusses the applications of the
thermoplasstic and thermosetting plastics, elasto-
.
mners, fabrics, and transparent maiteials. Other
materials as glass in light bulbs or optical such -
piping, ceramics and mica in electrical insulation, and
con- or electrical in lubrication and graphite cairbon
tacts also play significant roles in helicopter con- -
struction.
The nonmetallic materials used in composite struc-
other composite reinforced plastics. and tures,
mnaterial% are treated in par. 2-4; plastic materials
in par. 2-5. used as sealants and adhesive-; arc covered
Comprehensive discussions and detu~led design data
be found existing documents. Among these will iii I
Modern the are: MIL-HDBK-λ7, MIL-H-DBK-700,
annually by published Encyclopedia, Plastics
and the Malerials Isjxuv, -Selector
Co. Publishing annually Reinhold by published
their low is plastic'σ of disadvantage major The
moduitis. which is in the order of few hundred thou- α
for psi million or mome to 10 compared sand psi
metals. Thiey also arc more- sensitive to heat, soften-
0 hand. On the other below. at 400~ F and ing markedly
plastics can as strong as steel, be lighter than mag- he
have better abrasion resistance than aind nesiurn,
~2-7