AMCP 706-202
namic pressure distribt.tions. Drag coefficients are es- COMTO 'lENT INPLANE
tahlished consistent with the body shapes in the OF INDUCEV VELOCITY
wake, and θ-ι vertical drag is calculated by α strip VELOCITY (SWIRL)
analysis. One weakness of this method is the relative Α-VELOCITY SEEN BY
inaccuracy of the wake geometry described in Rcf. 2. OLADE ELEMENT
Improved accuracy of vertical drag calculations is
desirable although this mnay require wxtesrsive devel-
opment analyses. tets of more refined wakc Model AXIAL
can be perfornied with scaled rotor and airframe COMPONENT VLI
models. However, Reynolds number effects on data OF INDUCED AL .. EFFECTIVE covninl VELOC ITY ROTAIIONA Λ'"- .. " --.
from these tests can significant, be For conventional (DOWNWASH) VELOCITY
helicopter shapes (without wings) and values of disk
loading, dowrnload is normally about 4-6% the (φ
Hover In of Swirl Vector Diagram Flprt 5-1. gross weight. vehicle
Hovering induced power also is affected by blade
twist. Tdiij effect is due primarily to altcrptions in spanwise load distribution as α result of twist. Ref. I wh-re details twist effects for the "ideal" rotor. Twist sele- mean rotor profile drag coefficient, di- - tion for the actual rotor is covered in pat. "-2.1.5. Rrns ι us ,
rotor radius, ft The "swirl", or inplane component of induced ve- R -
slug/ft! air density, - power. induced that affects factor is another locity
rad/sec velocity, rotor angular in the omitted is frequently component This inplane -
is α (" cocfficient drag profile rotor mean The in the rotor of power the induced of determination
in the lift coIficient the mean blade function of work reported 5-1. based on axial flight. Fig. hover or CL.
1) "ideal" = (Ref. the case that shows 3. Ref. effectively in CL 6Ct° swirl velocity
rmdu, the magnitudc of the rotational velocity σ.cn ( C Τ
1
by the blade element. For lightly loaded rotors, this (5-3) u o.rR~π(flR)
swirl component can be considered insignificant, but
and rotors loaded heavily the more in substantial be it can
used today. In general, swirl effects should be in- C-ρ -
cluded in hovering-power-required computations un- α ap(1tR)" -4)
less disk loading ω 3.5. <
where
5-2.1.2 Blade Loading thrust coefficicnt, dimension;ss C =-
lb thrust, blade of unit per rotor by α Τ produced thrust The =
fps speed, tip rotor be can parameter This BL. fiR loading blade the is area =
and tip losses case, where the more realistic For of disk loading ω the sirnnlv terms defined most in
ZrL can be described other effects are considered, solidity χ. and the rotor
more accurately as (see par. 3-2, AMCP 706- 7Cr/χ
lb/ft ω 201). Also, α single curve BL of airfoil seocion lift and (5-1) - o drag coefficients cl and characteristic of the section cd
where case, rotor the actual of representative is not where
are effects compressibility and lb/flt' number Reynolds disk loading, - ω
Srotor solidity, blade area/disk arma, di- significant. When there are spanwisc variations in
actual *."! -'.... airfoil and/or planform blade mensionless
deviate even More meaningful than this parameter is the niirr, values of these characteristic coefficients
from the ideal. furthe; can be ut-ed coefficient This blade lift coefficient eL'
to define the aerodynamic operating point for the The rclationship between •τ and o can be
rotor blade airfoil sections and, therefore, to det(Τ- developed from flight tests of rotor configurations
in the drag coefficient. The profile power required similar to the one being designed (ι.ε., similar mine
is HPo proportional to the mean drag coefficier,ý if, Mach number, twist, and airfoil secticas); or it may
and can expressed be as be developed from detailed power-required calcu-
lations that include the spanwise variation of para- all
HP hp - (5-2.) meters. 0 -,
4400 The optimum value of mean blade lift cotfficient
5-4