* .....
9
not required pnkm parcifd by the procuring
ty. If feasible, the role of inflight emergency
systems is to deliver the crewmen and pass•ν•trs
with necussary survival equipment - to the
surface in such physical condition that they can
form the actions required to survive, evade
as take φ.ttion sa ne-essary (such the establishment
signals) of to aid in rescue operations. Although
flight oseape systems are not now operational,
search and experimentation have been undertaken
toward the development of such systems. An example
of such an effon. is tht; program of v!EPS
Navy. In this program α pyrotechnic device
separation of the canopy and rotor system from
helicopter and extraction of the crew if autorotation
impossible. is
and Dltddeg Plvidlem Escap 13-2.3.2 Groed
Beaue of the variety of emergency situations
facilities egress emergency of design the occur, can
problem. is α difficult ditching capabilities and
arc Among the primary design parameters
nmber, sz, strength, and location of emergency
doors; the use of slide ropes, slide poles, and
~~~~;
nr vnnlniwv .I..lhinoG~o
mated χ exits; and performance features that
min chances for sueossful ditching.
... 2
The scope of appropriate round and ditching
visions will have been defined during preliminary
706-201). Mission (we par. 13-3.2.1, AMCP agn
quirements largely dictate the size and shape of
helicopter, as well as its basic performance character-
iasfs. These in turn help to establish the natuic
likelihood of the possible emergency environments,
An analysis of the characuristics of the helicopter
and the emergency environments can be used
awu...σ
cruss Α..... . _ρ.Λ. ,.. -, cri agt"C £US (UUWU U36τ,1890 emergency-egress ;.U*τ provisions. Detail design
that these provisions be continuously reviewed
re-optimized as adjustments or improvements in
systems are made. Detail considerations
design of doors or escape hatches to minimize
bilities of jamming due to crash deformation of
or compartments. Design guidance is F.senger
are recommendations 3. Included by Ref. vided
garding operation of amergency exit closures and
quired markinps for emergency exits.
Emrgeley Λ ight Pmvriese 13.33.
Emergency lighting pr:ovisions should be
independent of the craft electrical system in the
or cargo compartments. Prcfaan should singer
to given an emergecy lighting system that is
"{ contained, oxplosionproof, wasi-proof, operable and

7o062
activi- by α combination manual/inertIa type switch. One
escape emergency lighting unit should be provided at or near
- each emergency exit. Additional criteria and design
earth'σ guidance are provided by Ref. 3.
per-
13-J.4 capture. Life Rafts
The type and number of life rafts, if required, will
in- be specified by the procuring activity. Design
re- guidance for life raft installation directions is given in
MIL-R-9131 and NUL-Λ-5567.
the US 13-2.3.5 Kits Stuiva
permits Army aviators usually wear survival vests. which
the are personal equipment and for which the designer
has to insure weight allowance, restraint capability,
and absence of control or reach interferences. In ad-
dition to this, space provisions for survival kits shall
provided. be
that
Aid FIrst 134.3.6
be specified by the pro- type of first aid kit will The
Selection of the location of the first the curing activity.
aid kit should be based upon the requirements of in-
ground flight access as well as easy access in case of emecr-
ge~nCy Caress.
maxi- I
13-3.7 FIre Extimgishlg Systems ad Axe o
pro- &nd The differentoa in size configuration of heli-
copters preclude de- specifying α standard location for
The portable rim ex- re- portable fire extinguishers.
the tinguishers should be located in such α way that they
are readily acoessibia to the crew member at their
and normal duty stations. Hand fire extinguishers may be
mounted either vertically or horizontally. The ex-
tinguishers must not be mounted over or behind the
to heads of crew members when they are positioned in
.... α Ik.ρ ν....... ρ ao~raan. *o-aens Lah rav
ν5 λ SPt~ε .... ω requires litter compartment should ν. be provided . with α -0 mini- 5 and mum of two extinguishers at each cnd of the corn-
sub- partinent and near entrance doors if it is practicable.
include Fire extinguishers for use hAll in occupied areas use
posi- nontoxic agents. Hand emergency fire axes be shall
crew provided as specified by the procuring agency.
pro-
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL 13-.4 re-
re- 13-2.4.1 Vendlatke, Heating, sad Coeling
Ventilation, heating, and cooling requirenents are
defined in par. 13-3.2.3.2, AMCP 706-201. During
detail design the specific environmental control unit
installd must be scacted, air duct routing definl, and the
pas- type and location of the air discharge ports defined.
be The location aid controllability of the air outlets
self- be adequate to meet the 10-Idg maximum shall
temperature spread in both θ: henting and cooling
13-7