ABACP 706-202
to limit malfunction automaticaily to s singie circuit,
and to minimize the danger of smoke and fire not
oniy in the components, but aiso in the wiring.
Overload protection of the equipment should be
considered separately from circuit overload protec-
tion. In order to obtain maximum safe use of the
equipment, sny protection required shalii be integral.
If the equipment is not requived in order to maintain
controlled flight, and maximum equipment use is not
necessary, the equipment and circuit protection may
be accomplished by the same device, provided that
this dual function does not conflict with the basic
requirement of protecting the wiring bringing power
to the equipment.
The primary intent of circuit protection is to pro-
tect the interconnect wiring and the equipment. Ali
wirce measuring more than i ft ftom the bus to the
load shali be provided with some form of circuit pro-
tection. Proper sclection of the protective device
should result in the lowest rating that will not open
the circuit inadvertently.
A circuit-protection device shoula be used at any
point in the circuit where the wire size ch nges, un-
less the upstream protection provides for the smallest
wire. Where more than one circuit is fed froni a sing!e
circuit-protection device, the protection shoula be
sizod to provide adequate protection for the in-
dividual circuit. The circuit protection should be lo-
cated as close to the power source as is practicable in
ord.r to minimize unprotscted wiring.
7-S.2 OVERLOAD PROTECTION DEVICES
Overload protection devices fall into three cate-
gories circuit breakers, including remote circuit
breakers; current sensors; and fuses.
7-5.2.1 Circuft Breakers
Circuit breukers n.ay be actuated cither thermally
or magnetically. Both typez are covered by MIL-C-
5809.
7-5.2.1.1 Thermal Circuit Breakers
The actuation of thermal ircuit breakers is de-
pendent upon a temperature increase in the sensing
«icment which is produced principelly from the load
current hesting. The thermal element will be affected
by externgl heating or cooling. and must be derated
or uprated from calibration temperature to allow for
fluctuations in ambient senperature. Th: majority of
the circuit breakers used at tine present ti-ne are of the
tnermal type.
7-5.2.1.3 Magaestc Circuit Breakers
Maguetic circuit brcakers use a trip mechanism
7-20

that responds to a mzguetic efiect rather than to the
heating effect of the current carried by the brcaker.
Magnetic circuit breakers normally incorporate time
delay so as to avoid nuisance tripping from current
surgee of short duret: on. Although the magnetic cir-
cuit breakers are lcss affected by adverse environ-
ment, they are not used to the extent that thermal cir-
cuit breakers are because the trip characteristics of
magnetic circuit breal:ers may be affected by their
mounting position and vibration.
7-5.2.2 kemore Control Circuit Brerkers
A remote control circuit breaker consists of a con-
tactor whose solenoid circuit is controlled by a
current-sensitive clement, plus a manual-switching
and trip-indicating cevice. The latter unit often con-
sists of a man-saily operated circvit breaker arranged
so as to trip whenevur the remote sensor trips. The re-
mote ciscuit breaker can be utilized best for bus
fecders and wiring connected to a single load.
Although an approved remote control circuit breaker
is not availabie, Military Specification MIL-C-83383
is being developed for a family of remote control cir-
cuit breakers.
7-5.2.3 Current Seasors
A current sensor is used in conjunction with a con-
tactor and a manual-switching or trip-indicating de-
vice in order to obtain the actuation of a remote con-
trol circuit breaker. The sensor current-sensitive ele-
ment conirols the soienoid of the contactor. The trip-
indicating device often consists of a manually
ope:ated circuit breaker arranged so as to trip when-
ever the current limit of the sensor is exceeded. When
a circuit breaker is used with a curront sonsor as s
rip-indicating device, the lowest possible rating
should be used in order to obtain an immediate indi-
cation of when the sensor has tripped. The current
sensor can be utilized best when there is & need to
control a high-current loa-sJ, such as in .. motor with a
low-current ccntrol circuit, and to keep the high-
current loads to a minimum length.
7-5.2.4 Fases
A fuse relies upon the meiting of the current-
carrying eiement in order to open the circuit when an
overload occurs. The four bazic fuse types arc: nor-
mal, time delay, very fast-acting, and current-
limiting.
Ench type of fuse is available in a variety of
characteristice so as to mect various circuit require-
menis. For a complete listing of characteristice, refor
to MIL-F-23419 and MIL-F-5372.