components of the formulation.
MMM-Α-1617 covers requirements for adhesives
based upon natural rubber., neoprene, and nitrile
rubber. Adhesives based upon natural or reclaimed
rubber are suitable for bonding such items as rubber
and fabrics applications to metals in where oil and
fuel resistance is not α problem. Neoprene- and
adhesives nitrile-based generally peel have greater
strengths applications, in the same as well as good
resistance to oils and fuels. The neoprene type usually
is best for bonding neoprene and most other rubbers
and rigid plastics, and has the best heat resistance.
Nitrile rubber adhesives are preferred for bonding ni-
trite rubber, vinyls, and other flexible plastics.
or to themselves be bonded should rubbers Silicone
adhesives, such as to other substrates with silicone
or MIL-Α-25457. those described in MIL-Α-46106
required. is pressure or No heat
are α special Contact adhesives type of elastomer-
upon strength immediate high having adhesive based
not they do but adherends, the two coated of contact
are by They repositioning. permit any covered
MMM-Α-130.
specifications in- Other speciai-purpose adhesive )
ude MMM-Α-121. MMM-Α-122. MMM-Α-19,
MIL-Α-24179, and MIL-Α-21366.
2-5.1.3 Pr•'silmg Operalihs
Process and inspection requirements for structural
adhesive bonding are contained in MIL-Α-9067. Fac-
tors to be considered include type of surface prepa-
ration, control limits and methods of surface treat-
ment. solutions. clean-room layup area require-
ments, prefitteng of parts, adhesive storage controls.
handlin- of cleaned parts. application of primer and
adhesive, tooling concepts. temperature and pres-
sure controls, secondary bonding of subassemblies,
rework, and destructive and nondestructive verifi-
cation testing.
Equal in importance to the selection of an op-
timum adhesive system is the selection of the best sur-
face preparation for the adhesives and adhe,.ends
being used. Some suggestions are given in MIL-Α-
9067. Other recommended sources are ASTM No. Δ
2561 for metals. ASTM No. Δ 2093 for plastic sur-
faces, and Ref. 6. With some metals, such as alumi-
num. the surface treatment is practically universal:
while with other metals, such as stain3css steel, it is
advisable to evaluate different treatments with each
combination of alloy, condition, and adhesive.
Significant batch-to-batch variations in α given type
of alloy may be noted. For most reinforced plastics, α
wet-sanding treatment is recommended to obtain α
water-break-free surface. When nonstructural ad-

AMCP " 706-202
hesives are used in bonding, .ι careful solvent wiping
and/or sanding treatment wi:! suffice for many
materials.
2-5.1.4 Desgn of Beoded Stnrctures
Adhesive joints should be designed so that τ~ey are
stressed in the direction of maximum strength. Thus,
the adhesive should be placed in shear while mini-
mizing peel and cleavage stresses. Maximum bond
area and uniform thickness should be provided for,
and stress concentrations should be avoided where
possible. Scarfing and bevelling are two methods that
sometimes can be used to reduce the cleavage-stress
concentrations at the edges of lap joints.
des- are constructions sandwich for Test methods
while numerous other test cribed in MIL-STD-401.
in FTMS No. for adhesives are contained methods
175.
2-5 SEALING COMPOUNDS
sealants between ipoverlapping degree is α There
in order to must adhere most sealants and adhesives:
the seals adhesive generally effective, while'an be
are for- it bonds. In addition, many sealants joint that
are mulated from the same basic polymers that used
in adhesive compositions. Sealants are related par-
ticularly elastomeric to the adhesives, and many of
the qualitative comparisons made in the previous
paragraph apply to sealants as well as adhesives. In
order to form trowelable pastes, sealants are formu-
lated with hirher viscosity and lower tack than are
the elastomeric adhesives. Lower-viscosity sealants
also are available and are suitable for dipping, brush-
ing, and even spraying. ν•,wever, These materials. are
classified more properly as coatings.
Commercial sealants are manufactured from α
variety of polymers, including polysulfide, urethane.
silicone, neoprene, acrylic, butyl rubber, chlorosul-
fonated polyethylene, and polymercaptan. In addi-
tion to the base elastomer, α typical sealant formu-
lation may include curing agents, accelerators. plasti-
cizens, antioxidant-, solvent thinners, and inorganic
fillers or reinforcing agents.
Sealants may be one- or two-ccmponent types. All
of the ,tter cure into tough. thermoset elastomers.
The one-component sealants are subdivided into
three categories: nonhardening putties that remain
permanently σ.ft: solvent-release types that become
σ.inihard through evaporation of α volatile in-
gredient. and types that cure by reaction with at-
mospheric moisture. Pruperties of the latter, after
curing. are similar to those of the cured two-part seal-
ants. (One further form of "sealant" is the cured
elastoineric tape or extrusion. Because these nm.st be
2-33