of 0.164-in. diameter and larger: for high-temper- Bolts normally are reusable, being replaced only
ature internal threads in excess of 900(F; and for when the head or the thread has been darmrged
threaded holes (other than nuts). MIL-Σ-7742 diring removal or replacement.
thruads, both internal and external, may be used for
fasteners smaller than 0.164 in. diameter, and for 16-2-2.3 Nuts
electrical connectors. Nuts can be subdivided' into such general
used Screws on helicopters should2 be restricted to categories as locking or nonleckang, and fixed or
two types of screw heads: pan or countersunk. In nonfixed. Nuts be selected in accordance with shall
countersunk applications. α head angle of 100 deg MIL-STD-1515.
shuld be used wherever ponibk; otherwise, α head Self-locking nuts can be used independentiy or in
angle used. of 82 should be Self-tapping del screws conjunction with such devices as cotter pins, safety
should not be lo•cking used in the primary structure. They wiring, lock washers, compound, or self-
may be employed, primarily in nonstructural locking bolts, as α mear'σ of keeping the nut tight on
applications, when the use of bolts or rivets is not the bolt. Self-locking nuts should meet the require-
practical. The installation and usage of tapping merits of MIL-N-25027 and be subject to the hall
screw σ comply with the requirements MS design and usage ef limitations of MS 33588.
337/49. Fixed nuts are affixed rigidly to the helicopter
Scrw are normally muable, and are replaced chassis by riveting, welding, clinching, or staking;
only wben either the recess in the head or the threads and are used specifically in ca.et where the thinness
have been damaged. of the metal prohibits tapping, or where limited space
an ad- also have nuts Fixed in inaccessibility. results
assembly and repair vantage over nonfixed in that 16-Λ.. PA"
The installation or removtl of bolts normally is α become one-handed operations.
be o" the should preferably nuts Nonfixed and it is slower Therefore. operation. two-han4ed
nuts, which or knurled Wing type. hexagonal-head using screws. assembly is an than more diffaclt
low-tension, used only for Adll be tools, require no such loose parts - many is the 4 disadvantage Ano-ther
easicr to nuts are the app!ications; wing nonstructural rcquired in con- pins - and cotter as nuts, washers,
safetied, must net be install. Nonfixed nuts, unless ol installation. Special care junction with this type
Sclf- equipment. nuts can damage where fallen to used are later noi dropped, that parts bt taken must
insuf- areas where in may be used nuts wrenching α moving or tojam inlet the engine find way into their
of use and for maintenance space is provided ficient ameably.
fastening for required ruts are Self-sealing tools. than lorger no be should general, bolts In
prevent leakage. to in order to fluid tanks at equipment extend the bolt should tightened, neceary. When
or, when apphi- urtil the threads, Nuts are reusable the nut. Hexagoraal head least two threads beyond
during damaged arc provisions, the locking cable, be should thrads left-hand and preferred, are boltm removal and reinstallation. be Self-locking bolts may aoiedwhen possible. ι
one surface is inaccessible, in tapped holes when used
Washers 16-2.2,4 be surface one that α requirement is when there or
smooth, and when temperatures do not exceed In general, washers are used under nuts to prevent
250"F. Bolts are more readily replaceable than studs. injury to surfaces upon tightening the fastener, and to
loads Allowable design bolt should comply with reduce the stress on the joint by increasing the
MIL-HDDK-δ. Installation and preload toqtnz bearing am&. Spacer washers may required be in
requirements are described in Chapter 4, DH AFSC order to prevent loatding of bolt threads in bearing.
1-2. covering approved standard Specifications bolts The imtended use and the temperature limitation
ar includod in shouii be considered when choosing α washer. MIL-STD-1515.
Bolts be installed .ν such way α to minimize Washers as be selected in accordance with MIL- •.dl shadl
ics the possibility los of of ihe bolt due to of the SiD)-1515. Dissimilar metals should not be used
control and out. In eystems, other applications toSether (ε.γ., steel washer with aluminum bolt) when
lows (primaMily in dynamic where of system:α) α bolt normal methods corr.sion. of protection against
could cause α catastropbic 'ailurt, self-retaining bolts ile such primer, may as be damaged during ass.-mbly
&Ω be ured, or trio independent means of locking or of the joint.
shall iafetying be required. Bolts be be installed Lock washers can used to prevent rotation of Adl
heacds with forward or uppermost, taking into con- the bolt and nut in nonstructural applications, but
μ-intenance sideration ease of and replaceability. are not preferred. Preload-indicating washers may be
16-2
Vý μ ω-- •τ2•~~~ JJ I -