9-214 Brakes Wheel
brakes wheel Hydraulically powered srWl
accordance The designed in with circuit MIL-Π-8585.
represents braking system shown in 9-τ Fig. I α
differential control. Each brake provides pedal
direct input to master brake cylindt Hydraulic α .
pressure may bc reduced at necessary for brake
also should operation. Parkinig brake capability
indicator provided shall be incorporated. warning Α
signify "ON". parking biakes are when the to
9-2.3 HYDRAULIC SYSTEM RELIABILITY
Good hydraulic system reliability cani be obtained
the probable weik links during best recognizing by
system must the initial design. Because the
within the constraints of weight and designed cot
fIilitary Specifications, and must meet appropriate
must be optimized. aspects of the design reliability
9-2.3.1 CostOe Redowlasey MWgh
The most critical hydraulic failures are those
to operate los the capability of ultimately cause
prmnary flight MIL-H-5440 requires oontrols.
whcrvtý hydraulic powcr is u=-δ for the primary * )
~flight controls, α completely σ"prate system σ/sol
for provided that purpose. Further, it is required
if direct mechanical contro' is not suffickiet to allow
controllability as defined in Μ IL-F-8785 in event of
hydraulic failure, an emergency power source shalil
provided in ordc- to supply the kwne4esry
trollability.
As. cmu of mieeting α. the redundancy require-
several design merits, techniques may be considered:
an Α gi primary 1. control Right system with
dianic-al reversion. This method is simple
relatively lightweight, and can used be if opeiating
lout are above pilot and/or bot structural
abilities.
TO,9-23.3
U
TIO.
Flpw Wheel 9.11. Syssem Dbab

2. single Α primary flight control system with inte-
grated, electrically powered hydraulic backup. The be
survivability characteristics of this design are good
installation. It with but may result in α heavier and costly
α also may present rejection problems. beat
Dual flight controls. This may the best ap- 3. be
proach if high powtr must delivered to the flight be:
control actuators. Dual or tandem actuators can be be
However, this used to enhance reliability further.
more wcight, more compo- type of system involves
nents, arnd, therefore. higher cost than other -ap-
proaches.
4. single flight control system with active utility Α
an approach which should be system backup. This is
suf- the utility system can supply power be considered if
as well as ap- ficient for the normal utility functions.
mnoment requi.-od proximately two-thirds of the hinge
Use priop ity valves of for the flight control functions.
in the utility system should considered be in order to
insure that priority is given to the flight controls in
that the event of loss of the independent flight control hy-
system. the draulic
that. 9-2.3.2 Utility System Redimilaacy
In utility Sccr~ieas, functions are not crAical in-
be dividuaily to the of the helicopter; 'control therefore.,
that total system redundancy need not considered. be
However. specific functions within the utility systeir.
α may be critical during emergency conditions. If so,
be emergency or alternate modes of operation should be
con- considered. Usually, the least reliable component
within the system is the hydraulic pump, due to its
relative complexity, high operating loads, and con.
tinuous operation. The use of two system u~tility
me- pumps can provide add'tional reliability. Each pump
and can be sired to provid one-half of tin. maximum
system power demand, thereby providing α good
cap- weight and cost trade-off in comrarison with α single.
large system pump. If one of the two pumps fails,
systan performance is reduced, but only the failure o(
both pumps can cause total system los.
Relia~lely Α*spet Mlaesimemu
The key to high systemn reliability is reduction of
the effects single-point of failures or elifflniation of
their cause. Major types of recurring failures are:
External component leaks, causing 1. loss of
system flstid
2. Leakage of precharVed accumulator gas into the
hydraulic fluid, causing pump cavitation or dumping
of fluid overboard.
The effects α.^ component Ickap can alWe be
viated significantly use by of isolation α leakage
device in each flight control syutar circuit. brands
The various types of sudh device discumied in wre
9-4.5.4. par. AMCP 706-201.
9.5