use of third alternative is the check valves
pressure sepatate the side of the systems, in
The relief an energy loss line. represents valve
normal system, and acts to keep the backup
fully serviced as a part of the normal mode of
Upon emergency reversion to the tion (Fig -9-14).
setting is high (backup) mode, the relief valve
pressures will return so generated maximum that
operate it. Where this concept is used as a part
dual system actuator. anticavitation valves
required in order to the keep relief valve setting
reasonable level,
A of is the use of a 3 vsriation Alternative
chanical to eliminate locked-out relief valve
loss during the normal mode of operiation. This
the by last portion of the complished using
system on reservoir stroke fillinS the hold to
valve off its seat mechanically. The initial
the to reseat and reservoir allows valve the
the upon reversion to system inteigriiy the
system (Fig. 9-11'.
SYSTEM
RE T UA# RELIEF INLINE
~vent
VALVE
SYSTE -"
R(SERVOIR CHECK VALVE
PiisSok FRO - H
SYSTEM NURM~AL
I
VU6SYSTEN
Valves Plus aI&&e Chick Pressure 9-44. llp,.
ROWh Valve R'tew.
ft~dt RE
TO R TLIR1h 11Cm
ftEORIML
r
9-isS lipi Mecimslcuy Ioce~d-eut lasiL,.
POW.. Vshe.

to variation of Alternative involves I use of poppet A
conjunc- mechanically in of volves and a operated carn lieu the
in the Pyrotechnically operated valves may used be also
system to provide switching. This approach generally is irre-
opera- versible, and replacement of the valves is required
after operaticn.
enough
Pressure Rc~uru 942.6.11.3 not Siessiu
Return pressu~re sensing (RPS) is most appro- of a
priate for use ire selector valves. full-trail solenoid wich
cylindes- retuarn when at a The port(s) is cominected to the
in the dc-eniergized the position. valve A spring- is
me- opposed, valve is in pressure-operated shutoff located
energy the return at the valve return port or down- system
is ac- Normal design. by stream. system return pressures,
backup overpower the RPS piston and allow normal valve
Combat damage, or or line relief op'-ration. component
external leakage, causes sttoke of reduced failure resulting in
pressure the return preserve check valve subsystem because
The spiing then operates the backup prevents reverse flow.
inhibiting operation RPS the solenoids valve. of thus
and, in preventing use of the damaged sub- Ieffect,
system and loss of the complete system.
The pressure-sensing concept can be uscd in con-
to pre- means a as functions switching junction with
switching a good backup system into a sub-
system that has lost its pressure vessel integrity. A
time delay of several seconds is integrated into the
both blocks motion initial i.e.. the ig fun~ction, switch;
BACKUP BACKUP
NORMAL PRSUERTR4 NUKKAL
RTR PRESSURE
OPERATION MANUAL
CAPABILITY S14OWN - OPERATED MOTOR BE CAN
SUBSYSTEM REMAVONSUBSYSTEM
PRESSURE RETURN
Cnm4*@mi$W 9-16. Fip, Peppie S.whhirig Vat.,
9-9