)
to prt-.ude indicator current from activating ar-/
weapon or suspension and Mease component. If wa.-
hwd coatinuity monitoring is required, the moni-
toinSg cumrnts be limited to α value below that σ"Ill
which will activate tie most sensitive component. In-
dicator circuits that are integral to control circuits
canau. meet tWis reqietnemnt, and thus, should be
avoided.
4. Indicator systems be designed so that in- suadil
di.. -ρ power is not available to any part of the
weapon sytem unless it is turned on intentionally by
the operator.
shall be possibie in flight, in- Indicator tests 5.
of tiii indicator-related components. dependent
6. shall The operatir be provided with visual in-
indication This condition. τ-lger of α "hot" dication
should be in tLdc operator'σ direct line of sight. The
most conmmon indication is the use of an amber light,
which alerts the operator to use caution when the
weapons rmr armed.
shall The operator be provided with α visual 7.
condition indication (miv~ile launched aural missile
signal. or being launched)
or mis- indication of hangfires 8. Immediate visual
ρ ρ . 'In mumI pruviuc-ζ. zrc DL 5
employed to be arc indiestions visual Identical 9.
whether live or training missiles are aboard the heli-
all times crew acts at that the will insure copter. This
aboard. wae live missiles though as
be fully indicators and fuzing Arming 10. shall
the furmtion, and Excpt for the-power-on automatic.
fJncdiona, test~ng of the monitor feature pres-to-test
For multi- be required. should operatiot, no manual
pie carriage, each weapon should be monitored in-
either se- be accomplished This may dvidually.
continuously, or lectively
the during if iz occurs malfunction, Weapon 1I.
presrm cycle, be indicated. shall
10".3 WEAPON SELECTION
CONTROLLER/PROGRAMMER
Α weapon selection controller and programmer
be required tor helicopters canrying α .ariety jhall
ordnance. This unit also is required for con-
figurations incorporating selective or automatic ill-
terval sequence launching of wistiiif and rockets
from alternate xides of the helicopter.
""ε controller provides the operator with α choice
of type and quantity of ordnance. If necessary, the -
controller als can provide controls for .iissile
guidance operations. The programmcr port this ,φ
unit stores basic information about store α' ailability
and ammunition depletion status, in addition to per-

forming weapon selection sequencing at corn- the
mand of the controller.
The controller/programmcr unit(σ) must be
mounted in α readily accessible area, but not
ι-. oassarily in tie control pane I area. However in the
case of α guidance control system for nissiles, lo-
cation in the panel area may be required. The con-
troller/programmer function may be divided between
any reasonable number of subunits. The subunits
may be mounted in functionally convenient
locations, ε.γ., one per store location; or the entire
functien may be handled at one or two units mounted
por- central area. In alh cases, the programmer in α
must be easily accessible during ordnance tion(σ)
loading. The programmer porion(σ) of the unit(σ)
the programming into of means some shaul provide
unit the type of ordnance loaded into the various
stores locations. This input may be provided by
switches, keypunch, patchboard, or any other
suitable means. Based upon the information pro.
controller por- or vided by the programiffer unit(σ), the
shall or ordnance selec- tion(σ) provide the function
the required), and and guidance (when tion, firing,
operator. delivery as selected by the rate of ordnance
utimnlifif order in •,in renuirements, nortions
dur;..γ be accessible not nufct which controller the oi
may located wherever be normal usage of the system
The controller the aircraft. on conenient shall
fired electrically of all ground an effective provide
only during shall lifted be ground ordnanct. This
that must the controller/programmer Parts of firing.
on stub ε.γ., rocket regular basis - on α be accessible
inside the be mounted -- may the helicopter wing of
edge of the stub wing. This would require box leading
in. at each 3 Ξ 4 Ξ to approximately sizes limited 10
location.
10-7 TYPES OF !NSTRUI•1ENTS
The type of ument insti to be used depends upon
the condition that the instrument is recording and the
required ease of interpretation on the part of the
crewmernbet monitoring it. The designer con- shall
of sider: the beat type of display for the information to
be provided (qualitative, quantitativc rate, trend,
etc.); proper scale design to cover the required range,
yet provide adequate discrimination in critical
ranges; proper alphanu-meric design to assure read-
ability under low-level illumination and in α typical
helicopter vibration environment and the reliability/
maintainability features of potential designs. In addi-
tion to MIL-STD-1472 and AFSC #DH Refs. 1-3, I,
2. and ι should be reviewed for additional in-
formation.
10-9