Σ
41• ANTENNA DEVELOPMENT
The development of α helicopter antenna -α
gpon the requirements of the associated equipment
and the mission for which the helicopter is intended.
Some of the con-iderations are:
I. Frequency range
2. Radiation characteristics
3. Polarization
4. Efficiency
Voltage 5. standinj,, wave ta-ζ.o (VSWR)
6. Noise
7. Environment
Structure. 8.
determines of the amtenna range frequency The
frequencies use Army helicopters dimensions. basic
Without range. visible to the up kHz 150 from
high-frequency the output, power of ridcration
region extends to 30 MHz. Depending upon the
of day, the time of year, the sunspot cycle, and
vagaries of the ionoaphere and its various layer3,
HF band is considered to be the best for
distance communication.
0 With Λ α
(SSB) equipment, high-frequency communication )
becoming more prevalent. Howeyer, mission
quirements will tstablish urage criteria,
For VHF, 30-300 MHz and up is considered to
line-of-sight communication or propagation,
pending upon radiated power and receiver
tivity. and upon the points of radiation and
ception. For example, α reasonably clear area
vides true line-of-sight communication, while
pie layers of vegetation, such as are encountered
Southeast Asia. require much more power in order
effect through-vegetation transmission of electro-
magnetic impulses.
For operation at frequencies in the LF and
ranges antennas are quite long--eg., one-quarter
wavelength at MHz I is 246 ft. Because the
mensions are so large, it is standard practice to
the antenna system include an antenna tuner
coupler. Ing coupler automatically matches the
pedance of the electrically short antenna to that
the transmission line. This method of loading
antennas becomes leas efficient as the ratio of
na length to the wavelength of operation becomes
smaller.
For frequencies at or above VHF, the sizu of
antenna is less of α problem. As the ciectrical
increases, the instantaneous bandwidth of the -
tenna also increases, and the result is operation over
-/ wider bandwidth withoe'τ tuning. Whercas the
\. antenna must be tuned each time the frequncy
Σ~8-1λ

AMC 706-202
changed, the VHF and UHF antennas are fixed-
operation, with and are capable of efficient trned,
based low VSWR, over α band of frequencies. Decause of
the wide instantaneous bandwidth, the antenna also
can be used simultaneously by different equipments
tuncd to different frequencies. Diplexers and hybrid
devices are used to provide ivolotion between
equipments using the same antenna.
Radiation patternb of the antenna indicate where
energy is being radiated, or, conversely, from which
direction it can be received. Communication and
direction-finding equipment generally requires otnni-
directional radiation in the azimuthal plane, with the
maximum amount on the horizon in the vertical
in radiation requires Navigational equipment plane. its
geo- physical the of (Because directions. specific
patterns omnidirectional airframe, truly the of metry con-
obtained.) are never
time The airframe directly influences the radiation by its
the shadowing and re-radiation effects. The airframe can
the radiate energy coupled to it at frequencies where its
long- dimensions are an appreciab!, part of α wavelength.
At higher frequencies, the airframe blocks and sha- .
direttinnq in evtain raddiatinn dnww α
is The relative positions the of antenna and the rotor
re- also affect the radiation patterns. The effect of the
rotor is to modulate the radiation pattern at α fre-
be quency determined by the number of blade passages
de- per second over the antenna location. The carrier fre-
sensi- quency, along with each sideband, will be modulated
ρ%- by this frequency. As discussed in par. 8-1.4, this
pro- modulation interferes with the performance of equip-
multi- ment that makes ust of information contained in
in modulation components close to the same frequency.
to Rotor passage near an antenna also can affect the -am-
of the.. χ χ" , . " ρ- "tt- "μ-"hlt whI.... • in.... α
signal.
HF From empirical data, it appears that an antenna
can have α peak-to-valley variation of about 6 dB and
di- sharp nulls of 30 dB without cxperiencing overall de-
have gradation of performance. For the sake of economy
as α and practicality, it is imperative that the best an-
im- tenna possible be provided. Mission requirements
of will determine the selection and use of radio type(σ)
wire and associated antennas. For instance, the VOR
anten- pattern is optimum in α forward direction, while tac-
tical communications, IFF, and other primary radio
aids should be as omnidirectional as practicable.
the The polarization of the helicopter antenna must
length correspond to that of the antenna at the other end of
an- the communication link. This requirement does not
α apply to H F aotennas because of rotation of polari-
wire zation by the ionosphere. Cross-polarize' signals can
is radiated from be linear antenna elements as α result