AxiCF 706-202
In normal operation, initial movement of the ramp
actuaies 3 sequence vaive that permits flow to a
constant-displacement motor. The motor may be
moun:cd inside the ramp. and connected to the cargo
door by an endless chsin, so that it can be retracied
into the ramap structure. The sequence valve blocks
downstroke flow from the ramp actuators until the
door is completely reiracted. When the door is
positioned pro: riy, a hycromechanical stop halts
flow through the motor. Decay of potor back
pressure opens the sequence valve, allowing the ramp
actuator to bottom out fully or to travel to the paint
where the ramp touches the ground. Closing of the
ramp is esscntially the samx but in the reverse order.
9-2.2.3 Cargo and Persoaaci Heist
A utility hoist can be provided for loading and un
loading cargo and for rescue operations. The hoist, as
shown in Fig. 9-9, is powered by a hydraulic motor.
The motor requirements are established so as to pro-
vide a particular hoist weighi capacity and maximum
recl-in speed. The speed can be made infinitely vari-
able within the rated spced range by means of a hy-
draulic servo valre. The servo valve control signal is
generated by a potentiometer incorporated into a
contro! knob in the cockpit or the hoist operating sta-
tion. For the hoisting operation, pressure is directed
to the "in" port of ihe motor. For extending the
hoist, a pressure reducer should be used to providc
the relatively lower motor torque needed for cable
extension. À flow regulator incorporated into the
return line, downstream of the control valve.
regulates flow in both directions. Limit switches can
A lejdnis 3ETURM
HiST BRARE
BRAKE QN DE-ENEPGIZED1 RELEASE VALVE 0 IVE -E MERGIZEO,
р
HOIST CONTROL VALVF ASSEM9LY 01
(P TO. gt!h REGULA!OR
(PτΟC, REELOUT)
PRE SSURE REDUCEA
#ITR: EYFASS RE TUNN
CHECK VAI VE
OUT
BRAGE
CASE DRAIA
MOST HYDNAUL:C 10
Flgure 9-9. Cargs sad Prrwonael Heist
(Coactnan Precraure) Syst-ems
9-4

t. orovided to stop the hoist motor at the full roel-in
anc full recl-out prositions. P. hydraulicaily relcasod,
sefe operation of the rescuc hoist. Provisions should
be incorporated to siop the motor as the hook pasxes
through thc cargo-rescue hatch in order to prevent
whipping of tke cable. In addition, a dcvice can be in-
corporated to keep the cable under tension under no-
load conditions.
9-2.2.4 Rotor Brake
The rotor brake shall bc capable of stopping thc
rotor within a preselocted time period for a specific
range of rotor spceds following enginc shutdowi., and
the brake shalli be capuible of holding the rotor sta-
tionary when suli ground idle engine torque is
applicd. As shown in Fig. 9-i0. the brake may be
applied by a solenoid-energized valve that directs
pressur: to the rotor brake. A precharged accumu-
lator provides a steady hydraulic pressure for hraking
wt.en the main system is depressurized. A pressure
switch should be incorporated in order tr provide a
cockpit warning light indicztion when the t.ake is
On. To relcase thc brake, tbc solcnoid valve is de-
energized to the off position. allowing txe brake
preasure to bleed off to the return sysiem. Springs
may be used in thc brake assembly so as to overcome
the return system back pressure in order to allow
scparation of the pucks from the rotor disks. The
rotor brake skal! be designed to be fail-safe. For .nali
helicopters a simple rotor brake system may bc satis-
factory.
COCEPI ROTOR
LIGHT ORAKE -огк
RETURM
RESURE 4 lagns
ACCUR"ATOR
OCAS YFL.UC
IDE -ERERGIZEOI BATVA
(TYECAL)
HOTOR BRAKE
VAL VF
Figure -J0. Ruios Rrake Syecaa