..LA ACP 206-202
trisgers α ground transponder into sending back
another signai to the aircraß on α slightly different
frequency. The airborne trznsponder measures the
total siapawd tims, divises by two, and conve:ts this
fguze inio miles. The distance then is presentod to the
pilot by meuns of α dial instrument or α digital dis-
play. The antonna shouid be isolated from other an-
tennas as much as poasible duc to the pulsed
characteristic of the output.
8-3.3.3 Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN)
TACAN (Tactical Air Navigation) is ε military
system that combines DME and α form of VOR (Sta-
zion Bearing) so as to give the pilot α continuous posi-
tion fix with respect to ≈ singic station, in tenns of
distance and bearing to the station. Each ground
TaCAN beacon consists of α tranamitter and an an-
cenna. The transmittes operates in the UHF band,
betoveen 962 and 1213 MiHz. The aisborne reveiver-
transmitter sends out α chain of interrogation pulses
and docodas the reply from the ground station
TACAN is & linc-of-sight systenr, snd there is
almost no chance of interference from statione bo-
yond the radio horizon.
8-3.3.6 Losg-reng: Navigstion (LORAN)
Hyperbolic navigation is achieved when synchro-
nized signals having α known velocity cf propa-
gation are tra smitzed from at teast Fhree known
points, and the relative times of arrival cf these
signals are measured and interpreted. Standard
LORAN is : hyperbolic navigation system that was
developed primarily fos long-range navigation over
water. It operates on one of several frequencics
between 1750 and 2000 Hz, and its propagation
characteristics are desermined primarily by soil con-
ductivity and ionospheric conditions.
The long puise length requires the use of carefu!
matching techniques in order to achieve ressonable
clude the impossibility of instantaneous fixing wi:η-
out dual insial'ations, the presence at night of long
tra ns of pulses refiected from the ionosphere, and the
fact that ionospheric transmission is not homo-
genous, so that the shapes of the sky-wave pulscs
often are distorted and difficult to match.
LORA.N C/Δ is ths latest inodei of this type of ait-
borne equipment. The sccuracy is extrenely good
when the set is operating within the range of highest
accuracy of the iransmitting stations. The LORAN
equipment operates in the HF region, so α relatively
long, wire antenna is desirable. Except for reversal
characteristics, the same considerations should be
used in the placement of this antenna as are used for
the ADF sense antenna.
8-6

8-3.3.5 Compamen
abroad α helicopter. The most procige is the siaved di-
rectional gyro (DG), that has two modes of opera-
tion — frec diroctional gyro and slavod χœznpass. In
the frce mode, it acts only as α directionel gyro: in the
slaved mode, signals from α flux valve alave it to mag-
netic north. Particular care must be uxed in the lo-
cation of the flux valve; it must de as far as prao-
ticable from any ferrous material, and any DC wiring
in ciosc proximity must be two-wire twistod.
The stand-by magnetic compass usually is located
above the instrument pauel. Compeosaiion is inte-
gral to the unit. If light wires are instalßed for thie
compass, they roust be two-wire twistod.
Intermittent fields should bc avoided for all com-
pass sysiems.
8-3.3,6 Doppler Navigation Systems
Doppler systems measure velocity only, by the
well-known Doppler effect in which radiation from α
source in motion relatuve to the viewer is displacod in
frequency. In practice, this mcans comparing the fre-
quency of the returned ocho with α stable reference
irequency; ine cifference between tnc iwo is α direci
measure of the relstive velocity. Accuracy thus do-
pends upon the echo quality. Echo quality from
water, for example, often is poor.
Doppler systesns dstermine location relative to the
city vectors. Doppler accuracy reprsacnts an im-
provement over airspoed-clock-compass dead rec-
koning because the velocity vectors tueazured are
relative to the ground. Generaily, the voctors in the
direction of flight and normal to it (ξ and υ) are
centage of ths distance travelled, as opposed to in-
ertial systems whose accuracy is relative to the time of
flight.
Typical performance accuracy of Doppler systems
for ground spced is 0.11% (rma) over 10 nmi, and 0.06
deg (rms) for average drift. Reliability of actual in-
stallations has typically boen 1000 to 1200 hr MTBF.
Further iniormation on Doppler systems can be
found in Ref. 4.
8-3.3.7 Inertial Navigation Systems
Inertial navigation systems (INS) have becn de-
veloped primarily for use on fixed-wirg military ard
commercial sircraft. Because of the requirement ihat
an inertial platfor.ν be precise without ground ziation
correction, this device is α valuable navigational stan-
dard in forward areas. Countermcasures are vir-
tually nonexistent,