9
The performance. evaluate to order An tesmed
par. in is described calibrrtion airspeed for teat
acc&'μ- be must testing night This 76-203. AMCP
of capabilities flight of full range the over plishe
the over cruise climbout, including helicopter,
rideslip. Flight and range, aitorotation, speed
for conventional primarily teoniquas, established
9. and 7, 8, Refs. in airak are de-cribed
for V/STOL test instrumentation flight specific
10. Ref. in is described craft
Sowees Tmdal-prssmre 9-,4.4
determine to used are tubes pitot-static or Π~tot total or pitot presure, which is defined as
rest to brought is when it air the of prisure
measured is pressure total True tropically.
directly faced is that opening pitot sharp-lipped
can develop errors pressure Pitot airflow. the
attack of an angle at the tube impinges airflow the
number of α investigation tunnel Α wind incidence.
at high angles of attack total-pressure tubes 4
α that indicate Results II. desc•ι•bd in Ref.
and internal or no shallow with opening lipped
sensitivity to attack, of angle least has the tapers nal
The nitnt nni_. _nihi. € - vn
place to desirab!ε is usually it Therefore, -' ation.
hole in the chamber and drain water-collection
that airflow of amount small tube. The
hole drain out the tube and pitot the through
be investi- and should error, pressure α pitot causes
each design. for gated
in atmospheric operate do can and Helicopters
ice, producing to are conducive conditions that
air or in the droplets water from supercooled
because pitot opening, tip of the The rain. freezing
to blocking is susceptible region, in α stagnant-flow is
can δ χ compt.ly .. plug' and iy -- .me ,-and
accumulation before an appreciable even operative
parts of other and on the rotors developed has ice
electricially to use important is It. therefore, vehicle.
of deicing capable that are tubes pitot heated
atmospheric severe the most under anti-icing
in flight. occur to likely are that dittons
the forward in pisced normally are tube. Pitot
boundary the airflow of outside" opter, the heli of
are desirable the fuselage on high ions Loca layer.
tube pitot Tht damage. ground to avoid order
direction, flow the nominal into pointed be
protrusion behind any placed be not should
) It tube. of the separation ahead flow cause could
or openings windows aft of be located not should
It opening. pitot the into airflow couid exhaust
"be rotors the from the dowawash where located
excessive attack and of angles large-flow no: cause
\ ..

7Ω6202 ~AMCP
the of top forward the on Locations pulsations. flotw flight
hub rotor α stationary on rotor above the or canopy 9-5.2,
satisfactory. found been have
α in pressure pulsation cause can downwash Rotor the
pulsp- these of effect evaluates the 12 tube. Ref. pitot entire
pitot of the design Proper pressure. total on tions test
response, for pressure-lag lines connecting and tube
of out location favorable mounting α together with Some
prob- the pulsation eliminate evre can dotrnwash, air-
prob- prosure-lag of test investigation bIn. Flight
7. in Ref. is docum•,fted lems
obtaining for sufficient is tube ov. pilot Although
are there if that, recommended is •τ pressure, total
the two sets of instruments (ι.ε., two airspxd indicators).
This indicator. each for used be iources pitot separate isen-
pitot faulty α of detection redundancy permits by α
iced-ovc. or plugged α by caused reading pressure into
system. the in leak α pressure or opeaing pitot when
or
σ oureSo Presea Satk 9-3.4.5 of
designed with flush are is Α number of helicopters
, These the fuselage. on located vents prewsure static sharp-
vehicle that such shali be located ports vents or static exter-
airflow windows, of or closing the opening speed,
in- ω- tiv ,v'-" ca. ω viir tr-ι-ν ma-rii ,,,
altimeter, Each seriously. accuracy their affect not α
shall indicator rate-of-climb and indicator, airspeed pitot
manner, airtight in an the system into connected be passeb
vents. the static except for also
static the comprise normally vents static Two
on located symmetrically are They system, pressure
are inter- and fuselage, of the left sides and the right
tube single by α instruments the flight to connected ε.γ.,
the between halfway located α Τ-finting containing from
is installation left-hand and right- This two vents. it
system, in the errors sideslip to reduce order used in
also provides α partiai redundancy if one of the
α leak or if damaged, or plugged becomes vents of
and speed advanced with helicopters For develops. the
pressurized cabin to α leak α capabilities, altitude
In error. pressure static α serious cause could area and
with systems separate static two completely case, this con-
if there be used should left vents and right separ,•te
instruments. of flight sets are two area
the sides on vcnts are static for locations Common
Α tail boom. or on the ahe cabin of aft fuselage the of in
to rotor sensitive is ν.ot that be selected location rhall shall
from away that is and speed. forward or downwash and
α produce could that vents or air doors, windows, thlit
vents. of the the: vicinity in geometry airflow variable also
order to deter- in necessary is program test Α flight that
addi- in iables, all vat of influence pressure the mine shall
climbout, of χ•onditions under calibration to the tion does
and autorotation. range, speed cruise over the
9.47