"vice hall life. Service life dtermination consider,
minimum, the flight mmneuver end loading
ditiors of a realistic misklon profile and the resulting
s streg of occurrence of damiagio frequency
par. 4-1i. AMCP (ne 706-201).
PROPELLERS M4
""6-8.1 GENERAL
The essential elements of propeller design
described in the pariraphs that follow. Included
discussion a of propeller dynamic behavior and
it is handled in design; information on the
and blades; and dcign of hubs, actuators, controls,
description of how test data are used to verify that
propeller has a satiufactory fatigue life.
In many respects, the propeller design process
much the same as the design of a helicopter
However, bccause of differences in the technology
and therefore in various details of the process,
discussion for the most part is independent of
description in prior paragraphs of the rotor
process. Also. the design requirements specific
g-eneraiiy propeiers arc bcyond the scope of
handbook. Therefore, the paragraphs that follow
descriptive 01.ly of the process and are povided
assistance in thl - integration of propellers into the
design of compound helicopters,
Almost all propeller techiology has dtveloped
conventional from design work and experience with
aircraft applications. However, the information
seated here is applicable to propelsers for helicopters
as well. Where appropriate, there are special
ments relative to helicopter applications. Propellers
of metal or composite material, with hydraulic
for controlling angle, are emphasized. blade Informa-
tion on other kinds of propellers, such as fixed-pitch
blade angle electrical with those or versions wooden
actuation, may be found in ANC-9.
The preliminary design procedure for choosing
propeller is described in considerable detail in par.
generalized 3, AMCP 706-201. The performance
weight methods given therein allow an examination
so of all pertinent variables tLat the best configura-
tion can be selected. The best configuration is usually
a compromise that depends upon the relat.ve
tance of cruise performance, takeoff thrust, and
characteristics. This systematic method of propeller
selection has proven succesful for fixed-wing
craft and can be expected to provide the basir for
proper choice of propellers for helicopters.
"Besides the fundamental performance parameters,
noise frequently plays a major role in tht selection
configuration. If propelier a noise is an important
criterion, design some further compromise may

AW~ 7036-2M2
as a to be made as in both performance and weight quiet
generialy con- propellers and require low disk loading tip
speed.
cycles design, the propeller diameter, During preliminary
activity number of bladm% factor, integrated design
"lift aelecaed. be will speed and rotational coefficient,
The planform and twist distribution be also will
distribution camber and type the airfoil and selected,
significant performance parameters and defined, The
are the aerodynamic loads under important oprA 4ing
dine s e armte are and the rgn cocnt terforman
haw conditiwns then computed for use in are the mow
detail chanical design of the propeller.
a PROPELLER SYSTEM DYNAMICS 5-842
the Vibratory 5-&2.1 Loads
The structural design of a propeller is determined
primarily is by its aerodynamic configuration require-
rotor. ments, and by the structural capacity required to han-
die the -'rodynamic loads. Although the centrifugal
this and steady aecodynamic loads must be taken into ac-
loads the count, usually it is the vibratory that dominate
design the structural design. Basic vibratory loads originate
to from several sources, primarily thr following:
I. i~s Aefudy-atini
aie 2. Engine (These excitations, which generally are
for
significance with turbine engines and are not disa
cussed her. The subject is treated briefly in Ref. 49.)
3. Gyroscopic and inertial
4. Stall flutter.
pre- Vibratory aerodynamic blade lords are a result of
the propeller operating in a nonuniform flow field,
com- which cacses the aerodynamic lift on each blade sec-
tion to vary as the blade rotates. For conventional
means aircraft, the nonuniform flow field as primarily an
angular inflow into the propeller disk resulting from
with the attitude of the aircraft, which varies flight the of helicopters, some For weight. gross and speed
factors that can cause propeller flow aberrations in
a direction, velocity, and density are listed in Fig. 5-33.
3- For normal flight ope-atin$ conditions, the non-
and uniform propeller flow field is steady, and the varia-
tion in aerodynamic blade forces as the blade rotates
is periodic. The blade forces at each azimuthal and
radial position may be calculated by standard aero-
impor- techniques dynamic such as are used for propeller
other performance computation. The harmonic compo-
neqts loading evaluated of the may be by Fourier
lotding. air- analysis of the periodic Thee harmonics are
the the P-order atrodynamic excitations - I P, 2P, 3P,
etc. - where P is the propeller rotational frequency.
Although all of these excitations cause blade stres,
;t of the strongest and mc important is that due to IIP
(see Fig. 3-.'4) provided the dynamic design of the
have propeller system is handled properly.
5-57