APU operating life may be demonstrated to :iny
given model specification requirement. Α test plan
may be chosen from MIl-Σ7Δ-781. Typically, if α
mean time between failures (NTBF) of 1500 hr is
specificd, α test with seven APU'σ, cach opcrated to
300 hr without failurc. would he recommended
Othe: combinations of run time and number of
engines may bc chosen. χ.γ., thrcc APU'σ with cach
tunning 750 hr without α reizvant fsilere.
High installed reliability can te obtained by speci
fying α timc betwecn overhauls (TBO) close to the
specified MT8F. However. this results in ≈ con-
siderably higher life-cycle opcrating cosi. Lcwest cost
is obtained by using ihe reinove for failure (RFF)
philcsophy, wher. APU'σ are repaired or removed
only in cvent of & melfunction.
À failurt mode and cfcct analysis (FMEA) for the
APU shall be specificd to show the consequences of
cach probab.χ trilure. This will assist in reliability
prediction. choice of scheduled snaintenance inter-
vals, and the determination of RFF versus TBO piri-
losopnics.
Several problem areas have been experiesced by
operation of the APU in the belicopter. These α/aus
inciuce vibration, recircuiation oi expaust gares,
FOD, etc. They point up the importance of careful
delincation, in the quality assurance proviaicns of the
APU model specification, of design and tesi con-
aitions that simulate thc helicopter environment.
The vibration environment is priniary. The profle
of amnplitude and frequencies at the APU installation
must be defined. The arnplitude and frequencies of
ihe AFU-generated vibralion also should be speci-
fied to anticipate airframe structural problems.
APU air inlet temperature limits arc specified, and
the APU installation must be designed to prevent re-
circuistion of main engine or APL exhaust gas.
Careful attention must be given to this problem
because it is impractical so stempt to iimit hencop
ter opcration. in undesirab!ρ wind directions. Irlet
duct locations either must be remote from exhaust
outlets, or safety shutdow.σ senso:σ must be pro-
vided.
Similar arguments apply concerning FOD, susd,
or dust ingestion. Genereily, high inlet duct locatiors
are preferable because concen!rstion & φ dust in hover
is stratified vertically.
Many APU servicr problems cas: be traced to fuel
system components. Scme of these re ult from heli-
copter fuel system contamination. Additional
emphasis sheald be given to filration, and to pre
vention of main cank con:amination by proper fuel-
handligg methods.
Α mujor sou:ce of reliability problenis &rises from

ARCP 706-202
muintenunce requirements cither scheduled or un-
scheiuled. For example. more contamination is in-
troduced into oil systems (causing excessive wear and
carly bcaring failure) through frequent oil level
checks, oil additions, anc oil changes than through
scals an.φ vents during normal running. APU design
should stress minimum scheduled ρ.aintenance,
throwaway filters and components, scalcd systems.
and automatic controls requiring no adjustment. This
approach not only will increase reliability. but also
will decrcase net lifc-cycle AFU costs.
3-8.5 SAFETY FROVISIONS
Goud APU safety dcsign must inciude provisions
to prevent α failure frorn causing helicopter damage.
and. if pessibic. to permit naission completion in
event of α failurc. Thus, the APU instalßetion shall bc
designed so tha: firc, APU rotor failure. and crash
damage arc contained within the APU compartment.
APU-rotor containment is sn important safety
consideration, and can be hancled in sevcral ways.
Structurt can be designed to withstand and hul α
rotor tri-hub burst at overspeed trip conditions
(assuming α fuel control failure), but this causes an
underirable weight penalty. Alicrnatively. rotor in-
tegrity can be demonstrated by mcans af cpecialized
tests to measure stress levels under operating con-
ditions. Furttier, systems can be arranged to
gvarantec that blade failures occor fi:st (ε.γ., stress
grocves). but that ssailer mass blace failures can be
contanned wishin the casing structure.
Fucl and ignition sources sas. bc separa:ed by
means of the compartment design. On° philosophy is
to put the entire APU into α fireproof cenipastment.
Α second philosophy seel-σ to prevent fire by con-
fining (ue) sources and by segrigating the hot section
with α bulkhead. The APU contru!σ and oil sump
should be housca in fireproof contairers. Elcctrical
subsy-iem ignition source: should be rouied or
housed away fiom fucl lines. APl. inlet air should be
ducied from outside the helicopter to prevent recir-
culation in case ot comyartment fire. Fire detectors
and fure extinguishing equip.ant shall be us =δ to pro-
iect against fire within the compartment (sce par. 3-
2.4)
All APU fucl systenr components shall be crash-
worthy. Fuel lines shall be niade o: Texible hosc with
stecl-breided outer sheath, with the minimum
number of ouplings. At bulkheads, the hosc siould
be run through uncut, using fresigible hose stabilizer
fittings. When lines go through α tirewall, seif-
sealing. breakaway couplings shall be used. All line
supports should be frangibie. Lines shali be 20-30%
longe: than necessary to accommodate structural dis-
piacements. Routing shall be aiong the heavy basic
3-21