4-1.4 reducing iniet QUALIF'ICATION to uimulate REQUIREMENTS established be by pressure
~ Qualfictionequrerleut ar deflbc MCP limit altitude opeation, allowing chcvks for cavi-
Similarly, well flow efficiency. as volumetric as taticn qulfia ef nsre α number lPowever. there 7Ω6203.
~ tion~~~~~~~~~~~~ reurmnatirins sdr~ nerlt hermetically pressure sealed switch might be sub-
and frequecu.ies vibratory range of wide α to jectcd The confldance proems. design subeystemn the drive
in testing or endurance amplitudes during functional mininium passing α tests with qualification level 1cr
involving elevated an environment of thc presnce by sigraificantly is increased retest and redesign of
humidity. relative 100% and temperature during all requirements thes to attention rigorous
and time can save nature of this Attention to detail paragfaph This design. detail component of phases
treas te rquiemet. or:cost duririg testing or field evaluation. subsequecnt
1. Component and eaviror mental performance 412Δ~~psu ed
testing may in- broad sense, development In the Development testing 3.
support testing and the evaluation both design 3. streswntetiig tetngeude Life
rigs. These func- hardware on bench test of' prototype etarion testing as4.ε Lired su
as tey ι~et deaildesgn.tions arc an wxensieri δ-etail of design whereby early
4-1.4.1 Comaponent Eavirorimci and confirmnation of design assumptions or errors is
the initial of noacessary modifications achieved, and system must typical drive of thc Many components
de- thorough initial identified. Α dtiigrs are twsing. Such through individual be qualified initially
include: program may velopmcnt test and prs as scaevnge componei~ts lubrication system
of' castings Static tests I. trans- switches and pressure pumps, filters, surc
tests chip 2. Dceflection and transmitters. switches mitters, ternperaturc
tests Gear contact 3. presiure regu- transmitters, jcts, detectors, level
tests and disasemnbly 4. Assembly are best defined by lators. and monitors unecification
Lube dcvbugjnS 5. drawings. Qualification or source control control eyiAczi
ρ efficiency tests load and lmnfemcntal 6. structural, or en- classifieL. as functional, tests are
tests. mapping Thermal 7. the by mitst exerciscd be and care vironmental;
designer in designating applicable qualification and
Castlag Tests 4-1.4.2.1 and en- Structural assurance requirements. quality Σ-ittl
durance tests are destructive nature and therefore The designer and/or structure analyst will predict by
to arc lirnitec either to prototype qualification or ran- critiva' sections tlhe castings based upon the as- of
dom sampling in production. Functional 'and en- sumed load data. tcst fixture capable Α of applying
vironinental test areas may specified as quality and reacting these loads in α manner analogous to the be
Π
assurance requirement, with the sampling ratc up to intended helicopter use will designed and em- be
In addition to obtaining certification of per- ployed. Stress coating and examination techniques lO0%.
appropriate to perform functional tests as α part of relative locations of the maximum fiber stresses.
receiving inspection. The applicable qualification and Strain gages With suitable temperature-correectd
acceptance reqL~iiemei.ts must set forth the be by bridges or crack wire then should appiied at the be
designer and incorporated into the subject drawing or locations of these maxima, and the casting should be
specification. The need for completeness and ac- loaded in increments to failure. Recorded data will
curacy in creation of' the specification control demonst~ra~ε compliance with stated requirements
drawing cannot be overewriptiasiz-δ. and must be with analytical predictions so correlatW.
the designer cannot identifyt or anticipate the that cccurate safety-of-flight dci&.iions can made If' be
characteristic failure mode of α component, it will based upon subsequent be flight loan -5urvey data or
necessary to establish thorough environmental test when mnaterial disch'epancy review report action iand
procedures for conducting the functional or en- is required with respect to production hardware.
durance qualification. Once the characteristic failure
it is often to in- possible 41Α.4.2 Detflecitli Twas mode has been established,
crease the effectiveness quality of the assurance Deflwection tests often ar~τ; used to obtain data )
τ#*sting concentrating by on α particular index of per- relating to hot and cold static torque and external
forinanc while Jirninating those test factors that load re- deflection. These data are often required in con-
veal information. For example, the critical nection with gtar tooth contacts and for verification useful no
condition for the functional an test ol oil pump may of' spiral bevel gear development. Useful information
4-29