ENDURANCE MEAN 0J
C:' LIMIT ENDURANCE -3,υ
2O O
, --
• 0
_ =-U-- .-. -•
C3- • .ct '..
LU F
__I
C)
-J
MATERIAL
Figure 4-22. Single Tooth
-tci, or cut steel wire shot 2. Use cast iron,
no larger than one-half the smallest diameters
-radius.
Use several hundred percent coverage, 3. .. .
4. Dc.. ri.if. ε ι. , • ι"..-ρ *Λ iw v [iii Ao,- Wll β'- Lt,'• ,-Λ|IauaWs .ι im ',
to simulate the exact surface location to positioned
peened.
0.016Α intensities, 5. Never exceed
(> 64) or R, 6. Do not peen very hard
nitrided AMS 6470, AMS 6475, surfacs such as
Ssimilar However, cleaning and abrasive materials.
shot at intensities up to 0.01IN is grit or glass
missible.
Scoriag Failure 4-2.1.2.2
slide togethci under When two gear teeth
loca:ized is considerable heat generation in the there
When even in the preusnce of α lubricant- conjunction
rate of heat rate of heat buildup exceeds the the
the resultant tempera- fer away from the conjunction,
rise acts to reduce the lubricant viscosity, ture
oil film. the thickness of the separating reducing
lubrication zone, the temperature the full EHD
however, as θ: to the friction;
_44 rve -orl \_*4σ

C - CARBURIZED LIMIT
 NITRIDED - N LEVEL) DESIGN (SAFE
H - THROUGH HARDENED
Γ - GROUND FILLETS
Π- PROTUBERANCE HOBBED
R - HIGH RETAINED AUSTENITE
BLAST GRIT Z - ZIRCONIUM
Q -)
C-,^
AND PROCESS TYPE
Pulsor (car Fatigue Test Results
or and conditions change te the traniitional of thins
the friction generally fillet boundary hubrication regime,
the unstable condition may increascs. Conscqbeitly,
result in harsh metal- be created that eventually will
en-re υ suf- α, σ,.,rLr demnit ,α 'ρ'α,•, o4 *. *•_-oW -- .... , ... - ...-- * •. μ, ',τ.% ii. * ilvu - *,.
of the 2ear ficient to "melt" and smear α twin lyer be
This smearing condition is referred to tooth surface.
the physics of the as scoring or scuffing. Although
and rcmains the source of much debate brittle phenomenon
Lnderstood suf- intenive rmscarch, ceitain ficwors are or
design that will ficiently well to permit engineering
operating oon- set of per- minimize scoring risk for α given
approaches the ditions. There are five fundamenta&
must consider: designer
proper diametral pitch, taking Selection of the 1.
bending strength against scoring (Fig. load, carc to balance
finer pitches. 4-21). Higher speeds call for the use of
select possible to α pitch range in It always should be
enduranc is the life-limiting failur. trans- which putting
mode.
insure load 2. Use of α contact ratio sufficient to thus
pairs of muting te-θ in the In sharing by at least two
of the tooth contact. rise higher sliding velocity ranges
contact ratio for straight spur gears film The profile