)
AMCP 7OC-202
in. the al- Hg, setting is 29.92 exist and the altiniewc in which Ground-cljarged syrtem, η. Type Β.
the elevation when correct fielt4 will read the obtained timeter ground-servicing is from air pressure systakn
its altimeter in the ground. The is on helicopter equipment
of aid consists 9-63, shown in simplest form is Fig. 2. Claism:
in an or capsule mounted diaphragm α an evacuated to system is Class Supply -;harged α. 1.
dia- chamber. static-pressure The airtight case or 500 pressure I tai of
ad- pressure expai by to changes in phragm responds to α systnim is charged 2. Supply Class
-*β. movement of the dis- and the and contracting. ing of 30Ω psi pressure
α main assembly. is pinion to to is trcnsmitted α phrAgm Supply charged 3. system χ. Class
altitude. The pressure to mead dial is calibrated The 50)00 psi. o1F pressure
of the pressure at the static source and static Α testing required for Type qua~Lfication The Π. hneasured
atmos- true the from slightly may differ altimeter for those indlude tests The similar. is components
1' -,Β when the any altimeiter, For π. pressure pheric pressure, burst Π.. and proof product, of exanmination V~
the will indicate error, for instrument corrected drop, extreme temipera- leakage, and pressure flow
for corrected altitued instrument measure-δ sand and pressure fungus, humidity, cycle, vibration, trlife
built into is error error instrumrent The error General re- strength. for. and dielectric H.. α~λ \_Α~dustments
error. such things as consisting of !he altimeter, ttsting component quianets orpneumatic-system scale
the static pressur-. is called π)λ The quantity are conditions specified MIL-Π-8564. The given in (Pm,-
through determined and is or position error and il1- error temperature-σ, the test media, should include
to to value that is added requircivenrts are flight tests. The testinf. tration. System installation R.
is H termcd the at- true prtr~ure altitude determine 706-203. and AMCP MIL-Τ-5522 listed in
timeter position error correction 6 H
DESIGN SUBSYSTE:Μ 9-3.4 PITOT-STATIC
are- ftreim~π rptp nf aoitjitmrdu-,ng climh Li Α Α, - ,., ..
helicop- basic parameters of all performance in the
Instruments used to measure these quantities are where Xters.
ft altitude, pressure true altimeter, and rate-of-climb Hf indicator, the airspeed -
j ft altitude, pressure measured - in- the airspeed to inputs pressure H, The indicator.
ft correction, crroi jxosition altimetcr - which tube, the from pitot are obtained dicator ZýH-
α pressure- for standards performance Minimum ure static pre- the fromn and ire, press niaue~total
ie ρ altimetei actuated, sensitive nFAIO al- the foi- provides pressure also latter The source.
Specifica- of Military α number aire λ aiso C Ob. There climb indicator. of rate and time~tCT
altimeters currently specific cover that available tions fuselIage the the outside of on pressure sources '-he
military. the by used cabin in the instruments the to directly connected are
and con- tubing. Design of leak-tight area means by
valves or severe No and MIL-Π-8564. MIL-Π-5518
-- pro--- fittings Drain art permnitted. restrictions be shallI/
at low necessary, .emn in points in the sys vided, as
moisture. condensed of to permit removal order
and static pitot Military Soecifications governing
arc MIL-Π-26292 airzaft and missiles systems on all
IS. are written pri- Thesw specifications and MIL-I-61
but are for applicabie conventional aircraft, marily to-
I
compound helicopters having alternate means of pro-
STAT IC
increascd and, therefore, horizontal thrust ducing 0 ESt Π '.- capability. forward airspeed
Altiumetlers 9-3.4.1
) ,
7 scn-- with α Most meaurements arc made altitude
an altimeter. gage, called sitive absolute-presure
alti- an decrease indicates pressure α so that wcaled
τ Standat At- δ with the U!: in accordance ide increase
Altimeter Scematic Figure atmosphere 9-63. conditions 5). If (Ref. mnandard mosphere
9-45