6. Cantrei peer'adjoqpeet de souengur supeipor
Τ pd
6-0.12 Mw
MIL-H-8SD1 donigne ch θ
sabtky of tihs Ieacioopior тыв
for aach configasations rt on apquogkoe
dgaz:
1. CG linsts in the vortiund, inceral, and longi-
ε aue sgueg CO) ege:aresed sogo pen conpuocnco
function of groes weight for conveational bali-
copters)
2. Aslcwable rotor gpead varistions
3. Exteraal lond configaration.
Biscause seability is so dupundent upon the fuciors
citeci, tieir afects shouid be evaluzsod throughout
tioe develupament phugoe, asd during analyzic and
sensiag. Compliance witk stability specifications
sispuld be evaluatad, and ali the factors weighed as to
naian ronquirinousia.
6-1.1.3 Dasic Hallcopier Daia
During analysis snd flight testing. dats on the
stability characteristics of the basic, unaugmented
airframe should be mnsabliched. Thc bedicopter syalcas
is liktiy to uadergo wuny changes in its sutomntic
conirois, but only limitod sirframe changes, during
its life cycle.
61.2 ANALYTICAL TOOLS
There are two basic forms of mathematical rep-
resentalion for asscssing vehscie trim and stability:
anzall-periurbation equations and total-force cque-
tions.
The typical srasii-periurbation equations noted in
par. 6-2. AMCP 706-201, expedite ihe asscameni of
stability at one flight conditicen, and can incorporate
nonlincar control loops readiy. These cquations also
are sdeptable to paremetric studies using analog or
digita! computers.
Total-force equations con.pletely describe the ab.
solute foroes acting upo. the helicupier. However,
they raquire * rather lege complement of estha
analog or digital computer equipment for their solu-
tion. Tts type of solvtior. in memrary wies in-
vostigaiing large variations in fligh. conditions qie.,
apred, atsituer, asd larg: tuit ang.σ).
Wind tunnol testing aboud β. conoucta. in orier
to refine the mathemaucal moic. Imunspation cos.-
cerning aarudyas raic charactoriakics o: the fusa σ*.

:
rotor Cuencecteristasar,
3-4.3 ATION AND TESTINC $20
arédware-in- mioe.
fligia: taucing. Theer: tecte provide desa ж
asaiyticel modui
peeesary.
Grousad-beaod, pilosiad Sighat simulasien provic
an valuat on of man/macini
and an cstacnate of the tiying qut,nluen prax do tos
Bigsht of the proiotype. st aiap aisowe audasamst baa
apuod fera o9 suormipos po sogorednud soj aug
cops:ie of evaisating ssuny angacts of fught costrol ae
discuped in Ref. 1.
6-2 STADILITY SMECIFACATIONS
Secaue tuch afort in apent evainatng the
handiting qunitice oi α igisopier, iu is masaury io. (. *
no singke desfinition, but bedicuapies dyrvamst siability
certainly infiuencus thar pilot'σ abibity to coatiud tihe
rosponacs to exteruel disturbenccs. Of agurial istarea:
are the magnitudie of the σ-ponce, the rapidity witis
whaich σ stcady attitude or trian is regained, and tht
exisioace of any oscillations or lightiy dampod ro-
actions. Enginoers work to quantify the rating of
ae ε on an ε pn ge
are able to provide futur: vehicles with deurehle
stability and to make predictions or comparisons for
existing helicopter. The latter includer preaction
with sufficient accuracy to supplement fight tesling
activities and to expand the engineer'σ under-
standing of safety-of-ficht topics.
8-2.1 CRITERIA AND METHOD OF ANALYG.Σ
The following list presents the tuore significaua:
topics relating to belicopter handling qualities:
1. Contral powes, sensitivity, and interaxis coup-
lιas
2. Inherent or augmented static stability and
Camping
3. Characleristic rorts
4. Typc Of sutonaiic contro! ayst-an and vatiabies
coptrolied
5. Fonve fecl
6. Magnitude of response
7. Inliunre of couurol acmpououto upou ssbility.