\_χ.also .. 3ls may be ma.'. eool. mbb Rcqardims of the typo of tooting, prcci oilnti ....
proper heat and pressure are required to assure that extruded aluminum for the manufacture of Dies
spars are relatively inexpnasive; however, the have been applied. Printed chart records are ma-
end desirable, provisions should be mado for the pro- chining and other operations involved are likely to
of each individual representative ceasing of samples in any the spar is tapered this cost advantage if offist
tested to destruction. blade assembly that can be maintain the Frequently, it is difficult to way.
required tolerances in aluminum extrusions. Even after having maintained such control, it is
Formed sheet-metal σ~ars and shear webs, or desirable that some form of nondestructive testing
longitudinal stiffeners, usually are made in α multi- (NDT) be applied to the final assembly. The most
roll forming mill if the blade is of constant see- prevalent NDT method is the ultrasonic scan, which stage
tion. Τ -oling is more expensive than extrusion dies, reveals unbonded or poorly bonded joints.
clo•ε but is more durable and produces parts to very
BLADE BALANCE AND TRACK necessary to 5-6.3 tolerances. For tapered blades, it is
stretch-fonr the parts. Tools and capital equipment Individual production rotor blades must have both
for this operation can be quite costly, but very close dynamically and aerodynamically similar character-
tolerances can be held. istics. Dynamic similarity is achieved through
Tubular metal spars may be made by any of several maintenance of α specific mass balance by the addi-
all of which are some form of swaging . )ν or removal of weights on the blade. Aerody- nmethods,
Tooling costs generally are quite high. Quality namic similarity is achieved by maintaining close air-
man- hazards associated with these proceed, include foil and geometric control, or by adjustments, such as
confirmation of drel pickup and the enlargement of otherwisc nqgu- with α trim tab. Determination and
gible or easily removable metal defects. dynamic and aerodynamic similarity are accom-
anid ,,ah bh.nAng by phyt'.Allwy plishd tools large, specialized requires bonding Adhesive tra-.ring
capable of applying accuratcly cunitrolicd heat and blade against α master blade or set of master blades.
pressure while maintaining close dimensional toler-
5-6.3.1 of Dedgn Effect ι.ε., they may "unitized"; may bz There tools ances.
contain built-in sources of heat ang pressure. Htat Considerations in obtaining dynamically and seao-
may come from the electrical resistance "calrod" type dynamically similar blades must begin with the
construc- of inserts or heating blankets, or may be provided by design. The selection of materials and the
steam or hot oil passages. Pressure sometimes is tion of the blade should be made with interchanges-
applied through pneunatic cells contained in the bility as an ultimate objective. In making material
fixture. Unitized tools have the advantages of being selections, trade-off such as sheet stock versus
bcinj semiportabic and of capable of providing extruded or forged muterial must be made. General-
differentf values of temperature and pressure in ly, α weight advantage can realized by tie use of be
siock of' shect the ~ec.te df.ee_τ ._•ι._• φ of-,tn•... sheet stocik. llhwcvcr. flori~oig Mn, - .---- the _ρ _. different ths- me ι 7,nn~ nf mutriouil na reviioi.-Α~ for fteacLM '-- "'
close-tolerancc the type of joint in each particular zone. Α dis- may not produce α and airfoil shape. This
advanlage is that each rotor blade type or sub- type of trade-off procedure should be followed for all
components asnernbly requires α completely new tool with heat, major of the blade to insure acceptable
pressure, and cooling provisions and relatively comi- balance and track and ultimately, the interchangea-
each plex controls. bility of blade with other blades of that specific
The other principal assembly method is the auto- configuration.
clave. Both heat and pressure are provide6 by this Bec:ause the control of the weight of individual
piece of capital eqisipment, and the tools that hold parts within α close tolerance could result in extreme-
components the blade and maintain dimensions ly high costs, some adjustment of the weight of the
during bonding are relatively less expensive than blade must be provided. This adjustment should per-
at comparable unitized tools. However, unless special mit the addition or removal of weight the blade tip
provisions made, are all areas of the blade receive the and, possibly, at the blade root as well. In many blade
same heat and pressure. This can α distinrt disad- designs, the adjustable tip weights are installed on at be
vantage since more heat input is desirable in α region least two separate chordwise attachment points (par.
as at the root end, where there is considerably 5-6.2.4). The location of thc adjustable weights at the such
sction mom than in α light of the blade. tip takes advantage of the large balance mass, nrm about
Α hybrid method of assembly employs α tool that the reference datum, which usually is the center of
source, contains its own pressure such pneumatic as rotation. Spanwise balance is achieved by adjusting
cells, but that is placed in an oven for heating. the total weight at both attachments, whereas the
5.46