15-1 INTRODUCTION
This chapter contains basic guidelincs, considera-
tions, and soquirements that must be followed by the
twoen the helicopter and its roquired maintenance
ground support equipment (GSE). The design guide-
lises presented herein are basod upon Army circu-
lars, rogulations, and policy manuals related to
operation and maintenenace support of supplies and
equipment.
GSE interface design must consider standard items
of GsE and the maintenance personnel capabilitics
available within the Army'σ system, and must be in
consonance with the Army'σ maintenance support
policy. Spocific maintenance and GSE interface
design provisions should use built-in-test equipment
(BITE), wbere feasiblc, and must irnprove efficienzy
in the wac of GSE at cach maintenance level. Wi.en
incorporated, these interface design considerations
and requiranents wili minimize thc time required for
turn-around servicing, maintenance, and repair; thus,
maintainability of the helicopter will be improved.
As used in this chapter, the term GSE includes all
equipment ncor'od to service, inspect, test, adjust,
calibrate, fault isolate, mcasure, azsemble, disas-
semble, handle, transport, safeguard, store, repair,
overhaul, maintain, and operste the helicopter and its
installed subsystems but excludes personnel equip-
ment, office furniture and equipment, &nd common
production tools and tooling.
15-2 DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS AND
EEQUIREMENTS
The requirements for GSE interfaces mnust be con-
sidered from the inception of the helicopter design.
Relability, maintainability. scrviceability and self-
test features must be designed into the helicopter and
its installed subaystems to minimize the costs of
maintenance facilitics and manpower.
Human factors considerations, safety, and accessi-
bility must be included in the initial desigr. Simi-
larly, standardization of equipment parts must be
emphasized, beginning with design inception.
Designs should cenform to the human engineering
principles ans criteria of MIL-STD-1472.
Equipment arrangements shouid minimize the
nood for removing cquipment when servicing is per-
formed. Design considerations should include analy-
sis of the operational deployment requirements,

AMCP 706-202
CHAPTER 15
MAINTENANCE AND GROUND SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT (GSE) INTERFACE
along with related climatic and environmental fac-
tors. Helicopter and subsystem installations sbould
be dosignod to permit persoanel wearing hoavy glovos
and clothing io perform maintenance in cold cli-
mates. Instruccion markiags should be legible and
placvd so that they are viewed casily. The dasign
should permit ground servicing by maintenance per-
sonnel with α maximum of safety and ε minimum of
skill. The design must assure that porsonnel with
minimum training and average mochanical abilities
can perform the roquired servicing. Giainzenance, and
repair of the belicopter and installed equipment.
Sharp projections that may injure personne during
operation or servicing mnust be eliminatod. Vital com-
ponents must be protectod to prevent damage during
servicing.
15-2.1 SAFETY
Safety is α principal consideration in the design of
GSE interfaces into the helicopter system. GSE inter-
face design shall coaform to system safety criteria,
principles, and techni jues as definod in MIL-STD.
882 and Chapter 3, AMCP 706-203. The objoctives
ν ν
tional roquirements; control of bazards to protect
personnel and equipment; and identification, elim:ι-
nation, or control of hazards asociated with cach
system, assembly, cr subasse:mbly. These con-
siderations shouid include, but not be limited to. the
following:
1. Human factors
2. Levei of training requireú foi safe servicing and
maintenence
3. Ct.aracteristics of fucls and hydraulic fluids,
and their hazard levels during storage, transporta-
tior, and handling
4. Contuinment of electrical and radio frequency
energy and appropriate waroings 5. Protection of pressure veasels and associated
piping
6. Classification of hazards resulting from α-
sential usc of explosives.
Particular attention must be given to possible :ral-
functions that could create hazards, and approp.iate
design features must be incorporated to climinate or
control thesc hazerds.
General rules to be foliowed in safsty design are:
1. Clearances must be providod to permit the in-
terconnection of fuel and/or oil fill lies, tlong with
electricai connoctiors.
15-1