,3. υ
MCP 706-202
Loss of systems due to accumuiator precharge gas
kcakage can be reduced to α great extent by elimi-
nating the nced for α main sysiein accumuiator. One
method is to design α sysiem relief valve having the
response capability nocessary to dump high-preisure
fluid to the low-pressure return side of the sysem
quickly enough to reduce the amplitude of pressure
spikes.
If α variable-delivery. pressure-compensated pussp
is used, preasurc surges can be reduced by designing
the punsp with α drivative rompensator. The com-
pensetor anticipates pressure surges by scnsing the
rate of ressure rise, and thus acts to reduce the
magnituoe of that rise befor: it reaches α critical
value.
The design approaches discussed in this paragraph
represent the Ist:st state-of-the-art developments
asd, therefore, may not prove to be the best methods.
However, their considered vsage coußδ be worth-
whike in increasing system rrliability.
-2.4 HYDRAULIC SYSTEM STRENGTH CON-
SIDERATIONS
Hydraulic system components and attaching
linkageu sbal! be designec so as to meet the most cri-
tical ioads o: combination of loads. Load factors or
design factors shall be cstablished for syatems in
order to insure adequate safery and life of the com-
ponents. Where applicable, boad factors must comply
with Milinary Specification requirements. When no
Military Specification requisement exists. tbesc fac-
tors must be determined and assigned in accordance
with good design practice. The following basic cri-
teria stall be considrred in catablishing these factors:
ι. Tne structure must not sufer fatigue wine.. sui-
jected to normal working louds. The uait siress under
normal working londs must be limited so as noi to
cacced the fatigue strength of the material, under
repeated loadiag. for the anticipated life of thc sis.
ture, with sireos conceniration factors taken into con-
sideration.
2. Thc structure must not yictd when ssbjscted to
maximum expected loads. The unit stress at the limit
krad mus uot exced thc yield srength of ihe
material. It should be recognized that tesi loads may
be impoued upon the structure that may excoed the
maximum limit lond encouniered after insiallation.
No part of the siructure ssould take any permanent
set or expericnce sny damage wher subjected to
applicaiole sest Jonds.
3. The structure axust not fail at tibe ultimate load.
Whas applicable, ultimate srengt: of material
srould be determtined oy bending or iorsional
modulus of rapiure.
9-6

4. Deflection of components must not causc mal-
funcsion. Defection, rather than strength, is often thc
major criterion for design of hydraulic system com-
ponents and associaied structural ciements. When
this is the situation, thc design shalf be based upon
limit losds rather than ultimate foads.
5. Temperature variations must not cause mal-
functioning or excesaive stress. Consideratior. must
be given to expected temperature variations so that
no binding. sticking, or maifunctioning of compo-
nente wili result. Internal strerses, such as those
resulting from the use of dissimilar materials in com-
bination, siould not excced allowable stresses unc
the mast adverse temperature conditions. Where
components are expeciod to opergte at cxtromely
high temreraturca, allowabic unit streacs may be
redciced.
Hydraulic systein design pressures (operating.
proof test. and burst) shal! be determined in accor-
dance with Table I of MIL-H-5440. Thc design
should be based upon the most critical condnion. In
ad-fition, MIL-H-Σ440 requires that all hydraulic
systems and components that are subjected, during
operacion of tne aircrañι, to siruciurai or vincr ionds
not of hydraulic origin shall withstand such loads
π
priate proof pressure as spocified in Tabie 1, without
excooding the yield point at the maximum operating
temperature. MIL-H-Σ440 also requires that actu-
ating cylanders and other components, and thcir ai-
taching lines snd fittings. if subject to arcderated
loads, stall be designsd and tesied on the basis of α
preasure cqual to the maximum pressure that will be
developed. without exceeding the yield point at the
maxiasuans operaing semperature.
Δ2.Σ HYDRAULIC SYSTEM TEMPERATURE
CONSIDERATIONS
Hydraulic Nuid selection criteria include tie
expectod range of opcrating icmperatures, tinoc al
of sauperature coatrol, and fuid physical propurtixs
at expected temperature leveis. Where ambieng asd
structural tessperatures are above the hydroulic fluid
-od α auduos ε ! nod ay σ/pe q
icntial fire hazard must be considered. Fluid sability
is affected by thermad stress, which can reault in
changes is viscosity and fornation of volatile com-
ponents, insolubie materiak, and corrocive deposis.
Hydraulic syuem efficiencies are raducod by igh
fluid viscosity at lower temperatures, which resuls in
iniet problens with pumps, siuggish reoponac of csiti-
cal actuators. pover lous in transmission. and weighi
penaltias due to lien: size. Ai high tomperaturos, low