20706-20
TESTS FLIGHT "66.
system control flight phase oi'a design detail The
helicopter of stages eariy the into ex~tends generally
is warranted ibgh, testing. Flight testing particularly
system con- of new flight control thc detail design for
of given a system. for applications cepts, or novel
design ef- with the detail Flight testing associated
system be vontrol the flight requires that fort
altered may bc its characteristics so that mechanized
After establiishing adjusted over limited range. a or
helicopter hpndling qualities with the flight con- the
cofgrto.th se.oisoia trlsystem
irt an at- configuration can vary the system enigincer
Hisas- qualities. handling improve vehicle tempt to
pilot commentary is based upon of change sesament
of the important ye- and upon recorded time histories
parameters. response system cL..ntrol and flight hide
consider the total require- Such eve'-titions should
enivelope. flight entire the over system the of ments
in discussed arc requirements test flight Specific
an MCP706-03.Laboratories, 9, Chapers
06-03.5. Chater S nd , ACP
REVIEW DESIGN 6.6.5
the selected been has aind configuration the Whtn
detail the identified, been have requirements design
lay- lull-size and one-half the from proceehs design
simul- conducted are analyses weight and Stress outs.
layouts fuli-size of preparation the with taneously
drawings. installation detail, assembly, and and
advance in ordered are and material items Long-lead
release. drawing the of
FDetailing knowledge a ecquires components of the
The parts. standard and processes, materials, of
for 17 and 16, 2. Chapters referred to is reader
inter- the to applicable rcquiranievits guidance. Detail
hy- the and system control flight the between faces
9. inChapter amdescribed system draulic
order to it% performed be analysis hazard A &Wal
equip- incurring for potential design the determine
Gc- cause can that errors human or ment failures
de- this details 706-203, AMCP 3, Chapter cidents.
evaluation technique. sign
formal technical a review, design critical The
en- when the conducted is design, detail the of review
fabri- for release for ready are drawinort gineering
ise. design, the of purpose a oueet.Th th orp cation
ise. resignw the of acceptarplit prcueentt.l oetrmn ction
require- design the satisfies design thttedetail
in t forth sout dsig te mons, nd se atifie
reviews. prior
sup- ersnigproduct mebr Review team
maintainabili- reliability, test, flight engineering, port
aerodynamics, stress, factors, human safety, ty,
the evaluate shall prtxcess-en'incering materials, and
fields. specialized their to pertains it as design
6-29

.
REFERENCESK
Albion, R. Radford. a~id C. Blakc, I.B. B. N.
Helicopter, of the CH-46 Flight Simulation Pro-
Forum, ccedings, Ns~tional 25th Annual
Society, May 1969. American Helicopter
of Investigation An Exploratory H-uston, R. J. 2.
a oj Qualities the Handling Feactors Affecting
Rotor Helicopter, Hingeless NASA Ru~dimntr
D-3418, May TN 1966.
Champine, A. R. and R. Pegs, H. L. 3. Kelley, J.
Limiting Factors Currently Qualities Flying
as Maneuverability of Earth Nap ~Helicopter the
by D- Flight Investigation, TN Identifie NASA
4931.
Jr.. Matthews, T. J. Curry and P. R. 4. Mao
~h SgetdR~rmnsfrVSO
gesdRqimntfrVSTLFyg
Matericl Av~iation Army US Qualities,
1965. June 65-45, TR
Shigle- Kaplita, T. and Hansen, K. Cooper, D.
Power Fo~lowort Dywnaici Helicopter Rotor
Aviation Army US Speeds, at Failure HighI
1966. June 66-30, TR Laboratories, Materiel
F. and Kuutnun. i. McCaijcriy. Hi. Davis, j. 6.
Helicopter of Study A Leoine, Tandem-Rotor
at Speed. High failure Power Following Dy, -amics
TR Laboraitories, Army Aviation Materiel US
1965. Nov. 65-72,
Young's with Stability "Helicopter Kelley, 7. B.
Engineers Automotive of Society Rotor", Lifting
1945. December Journal,
Rotor, Control Helicopter 1ll, Stewart Joseph Thse 8.
the of Meeting Annual 16th the at presented
January (lAS), Sciences Aeronautical of Institute
I.
1948.
Sta- Helicopter Scibel, M. C. and Vague, 9..M.
Characteristics Handling and improve- bilization
59- No. Report Means, Mechanical by ment lAS
York, NY, New Meeting. Annual 27th lAS 27,
1959. January
A. A. and Kisielowski, E. George. M. 10.
Stability Mechanical Dynagymo A Perlmutter.
Helicopters. for System Augmentation
ac 710 USAB967nia.eor
ac 710 eor 19AL67.cnia
Fraundorf, E. and Kisielowski, E. George, M. IL.
Stability a Mechanical of Evaluation Reliability
Helicopters. for Systemw Augmentation
June 69-17, Report Technical USAAVLADS
1969.
for Rotor Tali Walters, D. and Culver, 1. 12.
Octobe* 3,004.736, No. Patent U S Helicopter,
1961.