"AMCP 706-202
angle of the blade remains the same or decreases. The
kinematic coupling that varies the feathering, or
pitch. angle of the blade with flapping is defined as 63,
and the standard notation is that an increase of pitch PITCH
with an increase of flapping angle is positive. Flap-
pitch coupling can be introduced mn!chanically by a
skewed flap hinge, or by radial location of the attach-
ment of the pitch link to the pitch arm inboard N or
outboard of the flap hinge. Negative 63 generally is
AM (see rotor the of improve stability to required
AMCP 5, 706-201). Chapter
FLAP produce hinge lag the of outboard bearings Pitch .
mechan- the blade changes that oupling kinematic
ical pitch with blade lag motion. This conflija- HINGE aihgle
ration has the potential for unstable pitch-lag blade
motion.
Fig. 5-4 illustrates the general arrangement for a HUB ROTATION
rotor with coincident flap and lag hinges. This rotor
has a compact arrangement of &ap and lag hingcs Figure 5-4. Coincident Flap and Lag Hinge Rotor
exactly like universal joint. Flap hinges located P
further outboaad provide greater control power, but
also increase the flap bekiding moment at the hub.
The location of the lag hinge closer inboard results in PITCH ARM
a lower lag natural frequency, with increased damp-
aing heing to required prevent ground resonance.
-
5-3.4 GIMBAi (TEETERING) ED ROTOR
5-5 a schematic of a.gimbaled rotor 0 Fig. provides
system, only two blades of a four-bladed rotor are
shown, although any number cLf blades may be used.
Each blade is mounted on a spindle attached to a
yoke that interconnects the blades. The yoke, which
"defines the rotor disk plune, is ginbal-mountcd to the " YOKE
YOK) In a shaft). the rotating top of (the helicopter mast
gimbaled rotor, no cyclic pitch motion of the blades
occurs relative to the spindles for any steae; hovering
condition, regardiss of CC, location or flapping
rclative to the mast.
The phase relationship of the orie-per-rev excita-
tion of the primary inplane bending mode is such that Flgure &-5. Gimbaled Rotor Schematic
the blade root moments are reacted internally in the
yoke, leaving the rotor hub undisturbed. The yoke
structure must be stiff enough that the natural fre- moment on the mast in the direction of rotor tilt that
quency of the blade cantilever mode is sufficiently varies at a frequency of two-per-rev.
greater than the rotor speed to avoid excessive ampli- A sketch of a teetering rotor system is shown in
fication of one-per-rev loads. Fig. 5-7. This rotor is connected shaft to the by a
For two-bladeci, or teetering, rotors (Fig. 5-6), the hinge, the axis of which passes approximately
gimbal mounting of the blades may be replaced by a through the CG of the rotor in order to minimize vi-
single tectcring hinge that allows only seesaw or flap- bratory hub and control loads. The stabilizer bar pro-
ping motion of the blades. Cyclic and collective blade rides stability by increasing the lag time between
pitch oc :,rs about the yoke spind!es. For rotor tilt shaft tilt and rotor tip T path plane tilt. he stabilizer
relative to the' shaft, forced the blades are by the trun- bar is connected to the blades through mixing levers
nion out of their ideal position in the cone of the bctwecn the sides of the bar. The inner ends of the
rotor twice This each revolution. results in a bending mixing levers are pinned to the bar, the outer ends are
5-10