Disptys Map 143
main- and helicopter the controlling Bemause
areli bopthver dmn- υ onring θ tain geographical
are de- very both orientation taining geographical
display may flight, α map in NOE tasks ι ianding
workload. The capability crew to reduce considered
display present position continuously is patti- to
fre- require obstacles terrain when valuble cularly . υ2. displays are generally Map changes. quent heading
type. The rol!cr or paper film projected the of either
are: types these of each of advantages primary
Advintages; Display Map I. Projected
mis- specific α for preparation map Simpler α.
sion
capability storage map Larger β.
track-up orientcd either be can Display χ.
up north
change scale flight in Simpoe δ.
Adantges. 2. Roller Mp figtsplaye Advantages, Map Display Roller 2.
cost initial α. Lower
annotation inflight and preflight Easier β.
IN- SUBSYSTEM HELICOPTER 10-5
STRUMENTATIOA
GENERAL 10-5.1
cockpit instrumentation provides Subsystemn
rfereles of enins,.eh the condition that desribe
secondary ancillary equipment. systems, and power
side-by-siue, Geated are copilot and pilot When
groups arrangement panel instrunment most common
pantl. of the center the in instruments subsystem the
necessary it is in tandem, seated are pilots the When
and instruments subsystem the of some to duplicate
panel. Preferred pilot'σ on each place ther. to
MIL-STD-250. in given are cations
10-$51 INSTRUMENTATION REQUIRED
arc instrLmcnts of the complexity and Thei number
and for safe minimum required to the limited
individual subsystems. of the operation ficient
dcpends requirtd amount of instrumentation The
complexity and the the helicopter of size the upon
helicopter ot.- light Α single-engine, its subsystems.
α multi- instrumentation than less viously requires
and panel weight, transport Cost, helicopter. engine,
by having can be reslized savings frequently space
display. the same share parameters similar several
are of concern parameters subsystem Since many
appropriate para- the of α malfunction, only in event
automatically cr manually be selected can meter
Rapid light illuminates. α caution when display
cost-effective in the may result electronics in vances
with instruments individual of many replacement
proces- digital and generator, symbol CRT display,

AMCP 706-202
in attractive particularly becomes approach &ρ. This
capacity computer onboard sufficient event the
the detail speci- specified in exists. Unless otherwise
σ/all be parameters subsystem following the fication.
displayed: be
in per- I. Gas generator rotor speed, calibrated
(if applicable) the APU for and engine, each for cent,
in °C, for temperature, calibrated Turbine gas
applicable) (if APU the for and each engine,
for percent, in calibrated speed, shaft Output 3.
engine each
for percente in calibrated torque, shaft Output 4.
engine each
for all in percent calibrated torque, 5. Total utegn egni
multiengine if engines. or
the for percent, in calibrated speed, Rotor 6.
ro)tor main
for each temperature, calibrated in °C, Oil 7. engine
per square pounds in calibrated pressure Oil 8.
for each engine inch (gage),
each for pounds, in calibrated quantity, Fuel 9.
fuel tank
10. for in pounds, calibrated fuel quantity, Total
tanks fuel all
in square per pounds calibrated pressure, Oil II.
γ.rb re rit_ ρ
for each demiferasure, 9C, calibrated in Oil 12.
gearbox. subsystem drive the
in- subsystem pneumatic and hydraulic, Electrical,
capaci- subsystem on based be should strumentation
redundant When failure modes. and redundancy, ty,
either generators redundant or systems hydraulic -
electrical carrying the !ntire of lo- is capable of which
indicating lights caution provided, are - load
may pressuie of hydraulic or loss failure generator
prove sufficient.
SYSTEM WEAPON 10-6 el-
INSTRUMENTATION
GENERAL 10-6.1 of
stan- design the required describes This paragraph
the helicopter for instrun.cnts controls and for dards
and naa- to flight Contrary subsystem. armament
selected off- can be which frequently gation displays,
modification, weapon or no little with the-shelf
o the uniqt.! is gencrall) instrumentation system
ν- Caa-cf, airframe. on α specific weapons mix
esti fii.:" and requirements mission tion to for
to ,. required are engineering of human ciple5 ad-
.,ε system. weapon man/machine an optimized
provide should and instruments controls armiament α
status subsystem rapid armamrnt operator wi'η the
10-7