plasica, coramica, and other nonmotalic materiaus,
the tcrm boat treetment uzually is appliod excluaively
to matals. The engincoring motals include ferrous
alloys, copper alloys, aluminura, titanium, and mag-
nesicm.
Hoat troatmont is appiod to all forma of motals, in-
cluding castings, forgings. machinod parts, bars,
pistee, and skoats. The beating cycke may be con-
ductod in variouns typcs of turnacos with a variety of
aumospheros, in liquid medis such ss molten selt or
molten lead, or by some other means. The holding
and cioling cycies may involve vacuum, controlled
inert atmoapberau, oil bath quenching, air cooling, or
water querching. The facilities, oquipment, procascs, controls, and
acoeptance standards for the heat trsating of metal
fications including MIL-H-6088, -6875, -7199, and
-81200.
17-6.2 HEAT TREATMENT
MITALLURGY
Tuere are many kinds of beat treatment, with time-
temperature cycles designod to devolop the crystallinc
and grain Sructure charastaristics of tbe particulas
matoriai. Those characteristics inciude strength,
toughness, hardness, machinability, freodom from
Jo Aesso Apdod s e 'srse (
the part to perform its design function. Each metal
and metal ailoy bes its own heat troatment character-
istics thai are determinod by its chomical constitu-
tion.
The more commonly employod beat treat opera.
tions ars annsaling, pormaliziag, strove relief, temper-
iag. und seicg.
17421 Amng
Mout beat procesos are variations of anncaling. A
"fuir" saneal consists of bosting the metal to a
temperature that ailows the grains to rocrystallize in a
я
chengoably as solution beat trestmeut, to indicate
aloying alomsnts are dicsolved and placod ia solid
solutios. Tsors the mata! is cooled in order to pre-
cipitate the desired sructure.
87-4.2.2 Nurmedlaiag
This anaenling step ofien is sccomplished afier
forging or machining in order to restore uniform.
grain structurs. The rotal is beated to just above the
sodution temperaturs — in no case long enough or
-de Ace on nous og cupars aqs ones on qpnoue oq
preciable extont — and then is coolod in sill air io
room tampurature. The effect is to restore uniform

AAXP :2124-202
cutting conditions in the provioualy dastoriod cryuals.
17-5.2.3 Stres Retef
This procens is conducted at oonsiderably lower
tomperatures than thove for the othor hoat troetrsent
aro reliovod by alloving the diffusion of boundaries,
or the diffusion of hydrogen from a part where
hydrogen cmbrittianent is a hazard.
17-5.2.4 Tosuperiog
This is the proces of robeating a normalized or
quench-hardened alloy to a temperature just below
the transformation range and ihen cooling it at a suit-
abie rate. Temporing is used to obtain desired proper-
tics of streugth and toughnees.
17.5.2.5 Agiog
Aging is a tompering procoss in whici: certain
alioys are bold at & constant, rolatively low tempera-
turo long enough to porsmit the procipisation of par-
devalop the desirnd propertics of strength. tough-
mes, beráncss, or formability. In some aioys. aging
The data in Table 17-5 arc indicative of the
tomperatures at which beat treaiment operations are
conducted for cach of the engincoring Eecals.
17-6.3 FERROUS ALLOYS
The conditions for annoaling. bardening. and
tampering individual ferrous alloys are given in the
appliceble Military Spocification or Aerospace
n
mocpberes, inert atmospberes, vacuum, fused salts.
and molten motal are acceptable heating modia.
Tamperature control must ailow the entire lot of
boat-treatod material to achieve its desirod proper-
ties. Corrosion, contamination, and embrittlement of
po p
Procoezes such as induction beating. flane harden-
inc. carburizing. nitriding, austempering. and mar-
puokag are tng seoud parquãnt ars Sueduog
the scope of this diecussion.
The oquipmont for boat treating must provide for
adequate handing and uniform treuiment of the
charge, as wail as for pracise control of the time-
tomperaturo-cooling program, to achieve the dasiros
rosults. The quenching procese: irvolving oil, water,
and air raust be controlled to function with adoque:e
speed.
17-17