AWP 7Q2
41-1,1.1.3 Maaimalahlty
Α gcnoral discussion of maintainability may
,κ found in Chapter 706-201. This discus- ι, MCP
considerations sion, treats relating speci- therefore,
fically to the transmission and drive system.
The basic concept of maintainability often
expressed as α requirement for α specific or maximum
number of maintenance man-hours per flight
(MMH/FH). Army helicopters of α few decades
as exhib~ted values high as 35 MMH/FH while
copters in the present Army inventory have values
ranging from 0.5 for the OH-58 (Ref. 31) to
MMH/FH for the CH-54 (Ref. 32). Small
copters as α rule show better maintainability values
than the larger, more complex machines. However,
the values for any given size of helicopter may vary
by 300% depending upon design variables. Current
RFP requirements arc in the range of 5 MMH/FH
for medium-sized, twin-engine helicopter for organi-
zational, direct support (DS), and general support
(GS) maintenance levels combined. Α value so stated
must apportioned be in turn (par. 4-1.2.1.2) to
various subsystems to establish individual design
goals.
Achicvcmunt of sadisfactoui-υ -aitai•-ability
is dependent upon two factors:
I. High component reliability (par. 4-1.2.1.2)
2. Ease of maintenance,
of Mainteinance is generally thought as comprising
two categories: nonscheduled (due to random failure
or accident), and scheduled (due to time change
wear-out components, interim servicing, and
spections). However, all maintenance. concerned
componer.τ change is discussed herein as α group.
The generic failure rates of many external
!η, rre that at,,ch sytem the drive in Donents
portents may be ranked in order of required
qucncy of removal or adjustment. Components
as hydraulic and electrical accessories, rotor brakes,
shaft seals, external hanger bearings, and drive
couplings require relatively frequent inspection
be maintenance and must designed for ease
removal and installation. Accessibility is the key
be terion Such components must not located
close to one another, and adequate wrench clear-
"ances be must provided for standard tools,
Subsystem components such as γ-arboxes
field generally not maintained at the or direct suppori
level and, therefore, they must have simple and
cessible attachments with structural clearances
quate to permit easy removal and replacement.
usc of integral guide pins or tapered dowels is rccoin-
mended in any case where heavy components must
aligned for the installation of mounting screws, bolts,
4-16

-
or clamps. be also should !τ emphasized that true
be leveling of •lte helicopter is seldom achieved for comn-
level. ponent change at the direct support Therefore,
ρ components neceLitate the use of when heavy
hoisting devices, extra care must taken in the be
is design of algnment devices and structural cicarancs,
so as to reduce maintenance effort.
essembled hour External shaft seals always should be in
easily ago vemovable housings or holders to permit bench
heli- changing of the seal element. Squareness, alignment,
and cleanliness practices all are critical to the proper
6.5 performance of α seal and are difficult to achieve
heli- when the seal element must be changed in place. The
shaft upon which the seal operates also must be easily
removabie because good practice requires that the
be shaft slipped into the previously installed seal,
allowing the use of adequate shaft lead chamfers to
minimize the danger of seal damage. It also is de-
sirable to have the shaft engaged with the driving
spline or some other guiding device prior to making
contact with the seal to prevent excessiv sidc loading
the of the seal. ".
The attachment of all external components should
be such that one man can remove all fasteners and
levels similar items. Two examples of design that • poor -
require unnecessary manpower are:
I. Bolt-and-nut fasteners through structure where
one man cannot reach wrenches on both elements.
Tapped holes on nut plates are proper solutions even
though α larger number of cap screws may be re-
of quired because their rigidity or strength may be lower
in- than that of α bolt-out joint.
with 2. Components that one man must hold while
another installs fasteners. Possible solutions include
com- slotted the use of guide pins, longer pilot flanges,
hnl,. ,-.aran-.,, cnm- ρ.;• η .. ν. .ν.. -ρ ρ-τ,,nn ,rt
fre- devices to secure the component temporarily.1 tion
such Components that require α specific orientation to
function correctly should be designed so that they can
shaft be installed only in that position, if possible. When
dhe or this is not practicable, as in case of some
of Government-furnished electrical accessories, decals
be cri- may ustd at the pad location to provide in-
too siallation instructions. Examples of one-way com-
ponents hy- are seal housings with drain fittings, _- Α
require diaulic pumps that line connection fitting
are orientation, and bearing hangers.
Components that require tight-fitting pilot bores
be ac- or similar devices should provided with jacking
ade- pads for removal. One man can operate two or three
The jack screws (tightening each one α little at α time),
whereas their omission might necessitate the use of
sides be two men to pry simultaneously on both of α
component (and possibly α third man to catch the