inartensitic in nature, but other precipitation
ing steels may be austenitic. Forming properties
.nuch the same as for stainless steels: forming must
accomnplished before heat treatment, and allowance
must be made for the dimensional changes that
cur during the hardening process. Strcrngth properties
ate lowered by exposure to temperaturrs
9750: for longer than 0.5 hr. The heat-treating
procedures are specified in MIL-H-6875.
• 2-2.1.6 Maraglng Steels
The maraging steels are the not treated in
crences given in par. .1; 2-2.1 henc¢ they arc discussed
in somewhat greater detail here.
The term "maraging' is derived from the capabili-
ty o! the material for age hardening in the mar-
tensitic condition. The distinguishing features of
18% nickel maraging steels are that they arc designed
to be martensitic upon cooling te room temperature
after hot-working or annealing, and τ- be
hardenailc to ultra high strengths in that condition.
The 18% nickel maragirg steels essentially
wrought alloys. The nominal yield strengths of
"well-eitablished grades are 2Q., 3Μ).). and 35( 2Μ),
The ability of these steels to transform into marten- --
site upon cooling from elevated temperatures is
paried by their nickel content. The transformation,
which begins at about 310'F and ends at
210°F, is of the diffusionless or shearing type.
formation of martensite in these steels is noi
turbed by varying the cooling rate within practicalec
limits. Hence, section size is not α factor in
process of martensite the formation, and concepts
hardenability that dominate the technology of
quenched and tempered steels are not applicable
the maraging steels.
λ8Ni The maraging steels may be cut with α saw
the annealed or hot-worked condition.
may torches arc and plasma oxyacetylene natively,
used. Hot-rolled or annealed maraging steels can
sheared in much the same manner as can the quench-
ed and tempered structural steels that have yield
strengths in the vicinity 110 of ksi. In grinding,
steels behave in α manner similar to that of stainless
steels, using α heavy-duty, water-soluble grinding
fluid.
The maraging steels can be hot-worked to finished
"or semi-finished products by all of the standard
methods of forming that are used for other steels.
avoid carburizing or sulfidizing, the metal should
free of oil, grease, and shop soil before heating.
"with low sulphur content is preferred. meta! The
be press- or hammer-forged at temperatures
'from 23000 down to I500°F. Forging is completed
ý,"latively low temperatures. The objective is to
Σ~2-3

12 AM,,ι /06
harden- the grain struchtre, thereby enhancing ihe strenpth
are and toughness of the sleel. Α minimum redution of
he 25'v. in thickness during the cycle finil forging is
recommended to produce optimum mectianical
oc- propcrtices in the finished product. Ho, bending, hot
drawing, and hot spinning are accomplished at
abosc 1500O- F:. 180O
Cold-forrnirg operations are performed on an- the
nealed material. Even in the annealed condition, the
18Ni maraging steels have yield strengths of up to 120
ksi, approximately four times those of deep-draw-
The ref- body stock elongations tensile of these steels in
the form of annealed sheet may be as little as 3-4%.
These factors impose limitations upon forming the
sheet metal by tensile stresses. On the other hand,
these steels work-harden very slowly, making them
the well suited to formirL methods dominated by shear.
They can be cold-reduced by 80% or more, and
shape. are formed readily by rolling or spinning.
age- Flat-bottom cups can be deep-drawn to considerable
depths. Roundtd shapes are formed mi re readily by
means are of the flexible die process. Cold-rolled,
four solution-annealed material is preferred. Rolling and
ksi, welding of plate shwc, are strip, cmm1on and mith-
ods of making cylindrical shapes.
im'- In the annealed condition, the λ8Ni maraging
steels are machined quite easily. In the age-hardened
about condition, machining is difficult because of the hard-
The ness imparted by the aging process.
dis- Although these steels have been welded by all of
the common welding processes, the toughest welds
the are produced by the gas tungsten arc process or the
of electron beam kEB) process. For maximum tough-
the ness, the carbon, sulphur, silicon, phosphorus, and
with oxygen content must be kept at very low leveis. It is
good practice to avoid prolongca times at elevated
in temperatures, not to preheat, to keep interpass tern-
 * Alter- peratures below about 250 F, to use minimum weld
slow causing conditions avoid input, and to energy be
be cooling rates.
Annealing is accomplished at 1500'F with air
cooling. For improved combinations of stren~gth and
these toughness, the steel may be double-anne.aled. Th-
procedure is to heat the material to !600°-λ800'F, air
 0 cool to room temperature, reheat to 1400 -150O"F,
and again air cool. Special furnarie atmosphe:-es art;
required in order to prevent carburization, sullida-
tion, or excessive oxidation.
To Age-hardening is accomplished at 9000)F, the time
be varying from 3 to 6 hr. Air is used commonly as the
Fuel heat-treating atmosphere. It is advisable to maintain
can thc temperature at all part: of the load to within
ranging - 100 of the desired temperature.
at The nominal mechanical properties of the age-
refine hardened 18Ni tiaraging st~cts are listed in Table 2-I.