Α#CP 705-202
flections of the opening should not be large enough to
cause failure of the glaze-supporting ayste.ν.
Thicknt#σ of tise glaze .-. determined by analysis or
test - should be adequate to support the pressure
and impact tosdings. In addition. the glaze ma*erial
must satisfy any ballistic-resistance requirements
contained in the system specificatior.
et 11-6 DEVELOPMENT
The iterative procesz of design, build, test, and re-
deigaa is calied development. Several different ver-
sions of the same airframe component may be de-
15 signed, built, and tested to determinc trade-off para-
Meters such as weight, strength, and cost. With these
data avaiiabie, α decision can be made as to which
structure besi fits the requirements.
Development, includirg tcstung of alternative
manufacturing mcthods, is & costly process. It should
be used ouly for redundant structures, where &nalysis
is either more costly or is impossible to accomplish
within the alloted schedule, or for new construction
techniques in which experi.nentai manufacture is se-
quired to prove feasibility and to deicrmine costs.
For purposes of this discussion, devclopmant does
not include the testing of parts to deitrmine points of
lc cal failure and the changes necessary to obtain adr-
quste sirength. This testing, rework, and retesting is
considered α part of the denonstration of structurai
aScquacy &nd is discuesed in par. :1-8.
11-7 MANUFACTURE
The dezigner has the responsibility to provide an
aitframe requiring as low α manufacturing cost as is
possibie. Gencraliy, tite must casily manufactured
cirframe also is the lcast costly one. Α reasonable
number of subassemblies shou:δ be planned to allow
case of manufacture.
Acressibility to all areas of the structure usually re-
sults 1ν lower cost, because more worl:ers can be ap-
plied during α given period of construct:on.
The structure should be designed to permit usc of
υ automated machines (χ.γ., riveters) and numerically
3 controlicd machine tools during manufacture in
order to minimize production costs.
In Chapter 4, AMCP 706-201, the consideration
for practical production tolerances is discussed. The
preliminary design will have considered the
solera-ces that can be achirved during mnanufacturc
and will have been thr basis for design selection. The
example used in Chapter 4, AMCP 706-201. is the
preliminary design ot the soors and hatcnes.
During detail design the exact production
tolerances required must be established. The
11-12

tolerances cliosen will be the result of many con-
siderations. Thesc include:
1. Number of units. The total number of heli-
copters to be produced influences the type and ex-
tent of the tooling that can be used. Α large pro-
duction run will permit intricate tooling with co.:ts
that can be spread over many units.
2. Fabrication method. The way the helicopter will
be fatricated on the production line influences the
tolerances. If thc helicopter is fabricatoed from many
components that have becai subcontrected to many
different vendors, there is α ueed for cioser tolerances
than if the helicogter is entirely fabricated on one
production line.
3. Assembly mcthod. Therc are various methods
of assembly that have different tolerance re-
quirements. Close tolerances will per mit complete in-
terchangcability of parts without addicional work.
Selective assembly will permit lces strict tolerances. Α
large productior run v.ill make parts availabie for se
lective matching with adjacent partz. If assembly
methods and production time is availahl, the saw to
suit, file to fit, appronch may be thbe best.
4. Performance. The noed for fiushness and gap
an influence on production toleranoes.
5. Interchangeability and replsocability. The ex-
tent that parts and componente should be inter-
changeabk and how they shuuld be replaceahle have
α direct influence on production tolerances. Re-
placment requirenients at the lower maintenance
echclons will require tole:anves that will permit re-
placement with α minimum amount ef match fitting.
6. Cost. Cost production tolerances where they arc
not required result in added expense. Loose
tolcrances that present assembiy probiems also may
resuii in addicd cxpensc.
Careful consideration must be given to production
tolerances. The final tolerances used will be the result
of coordination between the procuring activity.
engineering. manufacturing, and purchasing.
See Chapter 31, AMCP 706-201, for preliminary
design treatinent of accessibility/interchange-
ability/replsccability.
11-8 SUBSTANTIATION
In addition to design, development, and manu-
facture of en airframe, it is necessary to demonstrate
ihat the structural subsystem ν.cets the design
requirement. ? wo methoáσ are used to demonstrate
the structural adequacy of the airframe: analysis and
testing. Generally, it is acceptable to use cne or the
other method to prove that strength and de-
formation, utility, dynamics, and weight and CG are