7(Ω=( AWC
nominal rat Α. sintere powders of metal, no damping ceamic. can be incorporated irto the v'echanism?
of plaistic provid depth filtration with of the ball check nominal valve, and the chattering tendency
ratings of 2 to 65 microns and absolute ratings ca -not be eliminated. of Therefore, check 13 bell valves are
to microns. lOD Media migration τ~te primary dis- not recommcrnded is for applications where chattering
advantage of sinteired powder, but this can be is unacceptable.
avoided proper manufacturing by techniques. In cone check valvies, the ball is replaoed by α
Surface media remove contaminants by means of sliding element with α conical σ sedtialg surfsc at one
surface that contains fairly uniform orifices. Thus, end, This surface against seats circular α sharp α*ρ
the contaminants are retained on the media surface, or another conical surface. Cone check valves
In wire mesh types, small, uniform-dianreter wi~res, generally have less pressure drop fc'ρ gi'σ'ν size than α
woven into α Dutch-twill or square pattern, provide do check ball valves and have less tendency to
nombial filtration ratings of 2 to ρ~aicrons and ab- chatter 100 of the guided movement -ause 'Λ and result-
solute Cone ratings χ"ec from 12 to 200 microns. Ω.re mesh has an: damping of the valving element.
good strength and and frcc from media naigrmnion. is Dirt valves are susceptible to dirt the seating are* ini
is capecity per unit area low, but the thinness of the between the piston and body; this can cause cocking.
and mesh permits use of multiple layers. with resultant α leakage between the piston the
are body seating area. Cone check valves generally
"9-.2.6 as are Valves used in the same types of aipplications ball
cone types can uscC to be valves. Howe,.er, stops, starts, or check include any device that Valves
given valve of reduced pressure drop in α α means of α produce by regulates the flow of α fluid otherwise
or obstructs α flow size, and also can be used in applications whent the movable element that opens
toloiatod. be passage. The most commonly used valves in any air- tendency to chatter cannot
in borne pneumatic systun are described the para-
graphs that follow-
______
.
9-3.2.6.1 Check Valves NO UNRESTRICTED
prevent to valve α check of function primary The F LOW FLOW ι6 F
reversal. Check valves pass air freely in one flow
direction and, if pressure reverses, close quickly to
in fluid reversal Flow other direction. in the flow stop VALVE CHECK (Α) SALL
systems may be programmed as α normal occurrence,
or may be caused accidents by or failures. Accidental
flow reversal must halted be promptly and effectively. U4RESTRiCTLD NO
overprc-σ- may be this is not done, accumulators 811 If FLOW FLOW
surized, rotating equipment may overspeed, or other
twrnp^φ ('hc.ck arissg.ρ¶mnt riO~ffamn~oo ni -. π,,.ρ _______________
arc automatic in their with their valvinig CHECK VALVE CONE opetation, J8)
elements being acuiv~ated the by foices of the
areN Four types of check valves following media.
shown in Fig. 9-56. URSRCE..,RSRCE
In the ball check valve, α hardened ball serves as FNETE) LOW FLOWE
the closure element and is spring-loaded against α cir-
cular, conical, or sphefical scat. Flow forcez; lift the
balloffthesca an aginsttheloaingsprng.(C) RESTRIL~iwnrCHEt.K VALVE Because the flow must proceed around the beill, this
type of valve shows more of α tendency toward tur-
bulence and pressure drop than do other typc4.
During normal operation. the ball rotates slightly on UNRESTRICTE.Δ NO
__ *0 thus allowing eve.ι wear on the the retaining spring, FLW
'FO
ball and the valve seat and minimizirg the effects of
contanination. Because of inherent simplicity and
in frequently used are valves check ball cost, low VALVE CHECK POPPET (Δ)
applications involving small ;ine diameters. where
Flgiere Check Valve pressure drop is not of particular concern. Practically 11-36.
9-36