ABCP 706-202
Sility degradation from scif-induced disturbances
cloee to the ground during hover or low-speed
operations. This phenomenon, often termed "akit-
tishness". is believed to be causea by the rotor wake
reflecaing from the ground and reimpinging upon the
fusclage or winga. or being reingested as rotor in-
flow. With certain combinations of vchicle con-
figuration and flight operating variables, this re-
impingement and reingestion becomes oscillatory.
and results in large random responses. If the flight
control system is forced to suppress skittishness, the
designer must insure that satisfactory stabiisty aug-
mentation and control margin levels are produced.
TABLE 6-1. MAXIMUM AMPLITUDES OF
LIMIT-CYCLE OSCILLATIONS
AXIS OSCILLATION OSCILLATONS ANGUI AR Li:VE AR
ANGLE FIA TE ACCE:ERATIONS
PICH - 3 mly NII.F -8786 -0 5 deg sm USAAML-1Α-65-45
ROLL 3μ·1, Μ:Λ-F 8185 MI F-949)
YAW 3 .0 10 deq sec
MI1-5-8765 MIl F-9490
LATEHAL .0.91 γ
IDAJE TO MI 1.9490
OSCILLATIONI
VERTICAL 0.02 9 MIL -F .94')
1008 15 OSC:LL ATIONI .0 05 υ
MIL -F -ε785
'DISREGARD FOR PURE F'ILLIÜOPIER ENVIRONMENT
jos
рсі
hATE tHIT EL!RA1LON
RA
ANGULAP 1u: SA:ISCA.Τ:RY
:2 : E !.
0.0
FRE UEM;υ,ν3.!
.E
Figure 6-3. Aflowable Pitch Control System
Residual Osciliations
6-2.2 AUTOROTATION ENTRY
Most lbw-disk-loading helicopters have the capa.
bility for stabilized autorotation in the event of power
6-8

failure but the vehicle characteristics must allow safe
entry into this condition. During entry, the character-
istics of the vehicle shall provide α reasonable pilot re-
action fime from the point of power failure to initial
corrective action (1 sec minimum, 2 sec desired), and
should permit α pilot of average ability to maintain
control with adequate margin. Once stabilized in
autorotation, the vehicle should be capabie of mild
mancuvers.
MiL-H-8σ0λ siates that the rotor speed shall noe
fall below α safe value, including that needed to mair-
tain hydraulic and electrical power, during entry into
autorotation. Other factors to be reviewed in con-
nection with this maneuver are:
1. Margin of control power available to overcome
disturbances, especially near zero load factor and for
vehicles with fixed wings
2. Restriction due to blade stress limits
3. Flapping and blade clearance with respect to the
airframe
4. Hufieting due to wing wake
5. Interaction of stability augmentation system
6. Magnitude of control trim change resulting
from coiiective piich reduciio. necessary to enter
autorotation.
Simulation provides an excellent method of evalua-
ting the average pilot'σ ability to effect the auto-
rotation maneuver, and of defining potential im-
provements.
Refs. 5 and 6 describe the difficulties of obtaining α
satisfactory time delay in the event of total power
failure at an arspeed near 200 kt. With dual engine
installations — where the probability of sudden,
simultaneous (less than 2 sec) failures is extremely
remote — it may be reasonable to consider only
single-cngine failures.
6-2.3 SYSTEM FAILURES
When α stabilitv augmentation system (SAS) is
used — whether it is electronic, fluidic, or mechanical
— the potential hazard of α hard-over component
failure exists. MIL-H-8501 requires that the pilot bc
able to delay α corrective control input for 3 sec
without the response exceeding an argula: rate of .0
deg/sec or α ±0.5 γ change in normal acceleration.
The influence of Night conditions and CG position
upon the severity of the response to an SAS failure
should be reviewed. Frequently, an aft CG position
coupled with Nlight operation near the blade or rotor
limits is the most critical situation. Stress levels upon
recovery from α failure may be an additional factor in
the ability to satisfy the failure requirements.
Responses to SAS failures can be seduced in
magnitude by the following methods: