avoided successfully only if the designer and fabri-
cater follow the complete sequence of
1. Dasign
2. Clcaning
3. Chromating or anodic film application
4. Surface scaling or impregnation
5. Paintine
6. Asembly
7. Routinc prevcntive maintenance.
The rsost frequently occurring inadequacies in recent
Army exparicnce involve desien and maintenance.
Aluminum alloys should be used in areas of high
suscepribility to corrosion. Ref. 46 reports the
replacement rate for AZ9! magnesium main
transm. jon case at UH-1 overhaul as:
Тор сане 16.0%
Main cave 1.7%
Support casc 2.3%
Sump casc
Quilis 1.0%
In the case of repiscements of the top case, 1/3 were
attributed to improper protection of bare surfaces
during ahipment afer removal of the nuain rotor
mast. and 2!3 to in-ecrvice corrosion. Thc relative re-
piscement ratas suggest taar the environunent in
nnon
ducive so corrosion. Aiuminum alioys with high
siicon contcat (6 to 12%) have been found to be su-
perior to other aluminues alloys and msgnesium
aloys with respect le wcar reuisance. Properly
designod splincs of thcsc matcrials will exhibit negli-
gibie wear wben operating with floating stcel mating
splires. Magnesiven and eiuminum alloys commonly
ueud in belicopter housings and cases sre listed in
Tabie 4-6.
The specification of co-cast taet bars in dasiguated
areas can inaure the highest allowable strengti
propastics. The uee of MIL-Α-211σ0 control speci-
fications rather than those of QQ Α-601 genes ally
wili issure 25% higher allowable fatigue strength, σ!-
σ ! sov qy q Are as ν !
strength defines the deuign and provided that mini-
mum wali soctioa restrictions are not imnposed. The
tenaile propartics of many aluminum foiging alloys
may be improved by cold working or mechanical
ares relief (Ref. 102).
Procurement and process specifications fot
castings and forgings are defined in MIL-C-6021. The
detail design drawing msst roquire the following
procosing aad sondectructive icest (NDT) inspection
proccdures α 'σ minimuan:
1. Isapregnution. Tbermcectting polyester resins
pur MIL-STD-276 are secomasended for casting im-

"ei
AMCP 706-202
pregnation. Vacuum proccasing is esscntial to remove
gas bubbles from casting pores and to permit good
resin permeation. Leak checks may be acrostatic or
hydrostatic, although the former is preferred for sen-
sitivity and clcanliness.
2. Radiographic inspection. Radiographic in-
spection is required in accordance with MIL-STD-
452. Thc detail drawing must call out ξ-ray vicws and
should include α stress diagram to assist in de-
termination of techniques and interpretation. to be
employed. Thc ξ-ray technique should be able to
resolve 2% of the thickness being examined. Film in-
torpretation is based upon discontinuity gradations
as defined in ASTM E-155.
3. Surface crack inspection. This must be
complished by fluorcscent penetrant techniques as
defined in MIL-1-6866 and MIL-1-25135. Inspection
must be perfornied after forging. final heat treating
or aging. cold working. strees relieving, grinding.
welding. and mschining. but before polishing.
tumbling. shot peening. plating. resin impregnation,
or painting.
4. Hardness inspection. All castings snd forging
Os pspusis ι xq snpuq soj popi q pqioqs
kg Brineii (or equivaient) methos so ascertain that
to sbot peening. plating. or puinting.
43.3.2 Qatill
External and iniernal quilis frequently are used to
houee α geer /bearing subasscmbly to facilitate modu-
lar maintenance tochniques and reduce the complexi-
ty of the primary gcarbox housing. Probienis typical-
ly encouniered in helicopter applications *re
sesociated with exceasive wear or high temperature
creep of tbe houaing bore tkat accepts the quill. The
primary cause of wear is the use of snaterial com-
binations that permit differential thermal expansion
with looucness becoming excessive at operating
temperatures. Combinations that tighten at elevated
tomperatures alleviate this problan whik retaining
caac of asacmbly at room tcmperatures. However, thc
sidered (par. 4-2.3.1.1) to assure that the materia!
yield strengt3 is not excceded. Becuusc stcci liners fre-
quently are used in lighs alioy quills, thc solution
must be exiended to consider the effects of four con-
centric rings with reapect to their individual tolerai-
cing. material srongths, fit-up. and thermal ex-
pansion coefficients. Sealant compounds always
should be uaed at extersal quill-housing joints to pre-
vont woter cntrapment.
4-67