28CP 706-202
, en * 4-2.2.1.2.1 Baadng Fatigae Streegth
The detenninution of bending fatiguc risk invoîves
thrce stoge: load dotermination, stress evaluation
technique, and dofinition of the propertios of
malerials used.
:The basic bending strrss equations, generally in ac-
corù with AGhf Α practico, may be found in Rafs. 54
(spur gears). 55 (belical gears), and 56 (bevel gears),
together with compuier solutions written in FOR-
TRAN symbology. Becausc of the increased preci-
sion with which the basic Lewis equstion goonctry
factors are treated, the usc of these references is
highly recommendeo. However, for α tetter under-
standing of tne relative significance of the factors af-
fecting tooth bonding faiiguc, the general AGMA
equation wili be rearrengod ani diocussed term by
term.
The basic equaticn for tensile stress is Σ, due to
toorh bending has been defiped (Ref. 57) as
'σ : ε ()() () , psi (4-24)
where
F face width of gear tooch, in.
J * gconetric shape fector, dimensionless
* misalignment factor, dimensicnlees
K overload factor, dimensionless
> size factor, dimenzionless
K dynamic load factor, dimensionless
Pd diametral pitch, in.-1
ω =gear tooth load, Ib
Both test and analysis have confirmed that the
dynanic load # is more correctly expressed as an
independent varioble rathes tban as being accounted
for β; spplying the factor K, to the gear teoth load
Ω.. Tnereforc, Eg. 4-24 sbould be replaced by
Σ, = (K,Ω, + Ω)Km psi (4-25)
where
dynamic load, Ib
Ref. 58 shows that the dynamic load Ω, exists as
an incrementai losd duc to tooth errors and gear
drive dynamnics at opersting speed, and, therefore, is
relatively unaffected by transmitsed power. Ar ac-
ceptabie engincering approach to the evaluration of
4-36

Ω. aiso is given by Ref. 58. This evaluation is bascd
upon the tooth spring rete calculation taken from
Ref. 59, which in tar: presents an analysis of the cx-
perimontal data of Ref. &C. taken during tests of solid
blank typc gears. Inasmuch as holicopier gears have
lighter bsck-up rim and web configurations than
those used in the referencod tests, the dynanic ioad
analyses based upon these methods will be cosserva-
tive. Greater procision can be obtained by con-
sidering factors other than tooth defleriions by the
methods advanced in Refs. 61 and 62.
Although dynamic load factors aud increments
have been studied by numerous investigetors for the
past century, the results have lad to only slight agrec-
ment. Therefore, well correlatec test experience is of
great importance. The interaction of profile modifi-
Cations, tooth errors, deficction modes, spring con.-
stants, and inertias are of such conplexity that
However, certain qualitative observations that find
general acceptance are:
1. The dynamic load Ω_ increases tssentially
lincarly with speed and spacing error. Hence, the im-
portance of increasing precision with speed is under.
scored.
2. There is o limiting vslue for Wg that probably
occurs when the suration of the velocity puise is less
than one quarter the period of natural vibration of
the pinion-gear spring-mass sysem.
3. The value of Ω. is proportional to both spring
rate and gear effective mass. Hence, it is important to
consider total deflection and mass of tooth axd rim
for helicopter gear designs. Expressions for ap-
proxinate values of the detlection &τ point of ρ.esh
impact for solid rim and tut configurations are given
by Refs. 61 and 62. For thin-rim helicopter gears
(back-up rim thickness of approximately one tovth
whole depth) with approxinately 40 or more teeth,
the deflection can be as much as twice the value for α
solid rim. The limiting deßection of α spur tooth &τ
the momert of mesh impact is approximately 10%
that of α helical tooti, reflecting α spring rate an
order of magnitude higher. As α result, the limiting
dynamic load on the spur gear wili be abou: three
times grsater than that on the helical geäρ. This
ansiogy also holds for comparing straight and spiral
bevel gears.
·4. In mast cases the torque capacity of α hardened
face durabifity rathur than by tooth breakage re-
sulting from dynamic loads. Many failures formerly
attributed to dynamic loads have becn recognized re-
cently as resulting from resonant or vibratory con-
ditions that may occur at high spceds (par. 4-2.4.1).