-
vibrations resulting from rotor oscillatory loading,
Other considerations requiring attention indude
namic stability, wught control, bearing applications,
mechanical function, value analysis, materials,
ding, and manufacturing processes, and the designer
must rely upon specialists in many of these fields.
3. The rotor stress group begins preliminary
design with the development of section properties,
These properties, in turn, are used for determination
of the nominal stresses that result from the highest
combinations of cenuifugal force (CF) and maneu-
ver thrust )onditions. The bending .Ioments for
conditions are computed in the steady-load portion
of the rotor-load analysis (par. 5-4.1.2.1).
Fatigue may be considered by an empirical method
that provides α simple and reliable account or
spectrum shape and severity in compo- relation to
nerat fatigto strength in the initial stages of rotor
component design (Ref. 18). This method uses
flight :oads calculated for maximum level
speed, the condition that usually produces the highest
continuous (nontrans~eut) alternating loading. Α
tor is applied to the calculated loads to obtain
loads oroduce that will satisfactJev α fatiaue-life
structure. This factor is α function of the material
N curve, the maneuver spectrum severity, the loading
frequency, and the fatigue life required by the
* copter system specification. The design curves for
factor are based on an analysis of several flight
surveys.
Natural frequencim also are calculated for
rotor as defined at this stage of the design. Changes
section properties and/or concentrated weights are
used to produce α frequency distribution that
principal resonances.
•,. I~~ltn -;.• *•• eh.• Α-.τ;I __Λ-.- Α - -. SIR. U%,Α Z.--66,, ρ Π,,OR%,
natural frequency placement insures the lowest
oscillatory bk rotor loads; and rotor and fuselage
quen.υ placement, isolation, and superposition
"sur the lowest possible fuselage vibration. The
characteristics be must such that low-frequency
brations the of fuselage are avoided. High-frequency
vibrations generally are not so critical and may
corrected during the flight test phase.
The aim of this continuous iteration is α
optimized, or balanced, with regrd to performance,
function, strength, life, weight, and vibration.
an acceptable balance has been achieved, the design
considered to be adequate, the drawings are
pked, and rotor components are manufactured.
However, further changes usually result from
flight and fatigue tests.
54.1.2.3 FM TeMt
The design calculations made during the drawing
,• -1Σ .

.1.
board phase incure that α rotor mects the static
dy- strength criteria and has an infinite life for the low.
cycl, high-stress variations associated with the
bon- ground-air-ground cycle. However, because of the
superimposed high-cycle, low-stress os.ilations,
mcny rotor and control system parts will have finite
fatigue lives. Design changes often are required to in-
sure that the adp~luate component fatigue lives of all
components are adequate. Flight and fatigue testing
is required to determine these lives.
the Prior to flight test phase, the strain gage in-
these strumentation, the flight load survey tests, and the
data reduction format be specified. The shall
measured loads are used, along with the approved
maneuver and frequency-of-ocurrence spectra, to
load determine the fatigue lives of all fatiguc-critical com-
ponents. The required flight load survey tests are out-
lined in Chapter 8, AMCP 706-203.
the The calculations made during the drawing board
flight phase are effective in guiding the design so as to avoid
excessive loads and vibrations at the lower fre-
fac- quencies; however, additional tailoring of the rotor
design and fuselage usually is required during flight test to
minimize high-freouencv loads and vibrations.
Σ- Measures taken include optimizing the amount ard
location of the concentrated blade weights; changing
heli- blade stiffness, such as through use of trailing edge
this stiffeners; optimizing the pylon suspension pa- ι.
load meters, and detuning the fuselage by varying stiffness
and the location of certain concentrated weights, ε.γ.,
the the battery.
in
5-4.1.2.4 Faidgue Tests
avoids The determination of fatigue lives of components is
discussed in Chapter 4, AMCP 706-201. The
compo- rotV o requirements for fatigue testing of critical
possi- nents are given in Chapter 7, AMCP 706-203. The
fre- parts to be tested, the number of saniples, and the
in- method of loading be specified. The samples arc shall
rotor cycled to failure, or for α prescribed number of cycles
vi- at several stress levels. The results usually are plotted
as an Σ-N diagram. Basic information on the need,
be methods, and interpretation of fatigue testing in the
helicopter industry is presented in Refs. 18, 19, and
design 20. By use of the fatigue test data and the frequency-
of-ocurrence spectrum, the fatigue lives of the criti-
When cal parts be determined by α method acceptable shall
is to the procuring activity (Chapter 4, AMCP 706-
com- 201). If one or more parts have lives shorter than
required, the flight envelope may be restricted or the
the parts may have to be redesigned and requalified.
Failure to comply with the fatigue-life requirement of
the helicopter system specification usually will result
in α penalty being applied to the contractor.