wMC
706-20
es- cooling margin, adequate provides area) wetted
gearbox. the across directed is air if forced pecially
oc- transfer heat of mode somewhat different Α
gearboxes Gear- grease lubricated. are that in curs
en- almost depend lubricated rease are that boxes
along gears the from of neat the transfer upon tirely
to and the bearings, through bearings, the to &haft the
by provided is of heat flow secondary Α the housings.
is this but occurs as agitation grease migrating slowly
to of heat conduction direct to the compared minimal
and shafts the through walls gearbox external
gear- lubricated on grease conducted Tests bearings.
and 37 (Refs. grease 68-83 MCG USAF boxes using
not significant, is migration grease that indicate 115)
in meeting be an advantage can of migration lack The
or no little since requirements operational fail-rtafe
α of event the in anticipated be would grease loss
housing. the in strike ballistic
4-4.1 OIL MANAGEMENT
to manifold from pump to filter delivery of oil The
de- and systemr-tic be must points load to then and
cooling, lubrication and proper assure to liberate
sur- prevent to specific be must oil the of Placement
leaves used oil the As cavitation. and foaming, ging,
gravi- natural α bearings, and/or mesh gear the
Traps around provided. be must path flow tational
churning excessive cause can rotating components
burden. cooling the to adding thus buildup, heat and
sus- will that vortices can create gears speed High
around thehousing against oil of amounts large pend
can bearings and gears to flow Excessive oil gear. the
the than greater buildup and generation heat cause
con- loaded the from coming heat of amount
oil the of movement Therefore, controlled junctions.
heat and elements rotating the from egress after
to oil the allow to provided be must points generating
the sump. Close back to way uninterrupted find its
from return lines gears, and shrouds around fitting
ef- provide seals shaft and bearings cavities between
ex- and entrapment oil preventing means of fective
ribs and placement of Judicious cessive churning.
provision ample an4 housings gearbox the webs in
help will structure the around or beneath flow oil for
return. oil proper assure
must and arrangement placement pump inlet The
pump, design of the in the carefully considered be
oil α sufficient of Maintenance and sump. housing,
by the volume affected altitude is directly supply at
the effect of pump inlet and oil at the oil and depth of
oil is the return If inlet. into the flow constrictions
cavi- the oil inlet, through getting to or in hampered
can ensue. pressure loss of oil and tation
4-82

more dif- flow is oil gearboxes lubricated In splash
func- the primary because However, attain. to ficult
lubri- is to gearbox of type this in the lubricant of tion
to riinimize sufficiently bearings and gears cate the
the at oil required of amount the generation, the heat
Nevertheless, management is minimal. points friction
lubri- of adequacy the to critical is still oil the of
for oil to made be must provision and cooling; cating
Natural seal. and gear, bearing, to each delivered be
centrifugal this; tc acccmpiish are employed laws
dif- pressure dynamic and feed, gravity head,
to oil to the impetus sufficient impart can ferentials
of α the inside to splashed flows. Oil directed attain
rontinuously flow to caused be can shaft rotating
oil from the the bore by tapering the shaft through
end the be at can outlet The outlet. the end to "inlet"
gravity by is accomplished return whete the shaft of
radial through be it can bearings or through flow
I
the forcing head centrifugal shaft, with in the holes
also minimal) (though Cooling the bearings. oil into
of ultimaze impingement by this Piow is provided by
of walls. Agitation onto gearbox interior the warm oil
the members dipping into gear by primarily is oil this
walls, housing the to oil the splashing and sump oil
shafts. of inside the to or gears, and bearings
pro- by accomplished be can splashing Auxiliary
cooling Maximum slingers. or dippers rotating viding
and agitation the by accomplished be can oil the of
de- to exercised be μ~ust care but action, slinging
tolerated be cao• that level oil maximum the termine
of effect cooling override the losses churning before
oil. agitated the
of set α different have gearboxes lubricated Grease
vis- high the characteristics. Although operating
qualities, lubricating good provides grease of cosity
inside migration free prevents also high viscosity this
to forced be must grease thf. result, α As gearbox. the
by usua!ly cavities, gear anM bearing the in remain
grease is thereby br The inffges. of shrouds and means
and the grease ee'η bearing, around 'aptured"
sup- adequate an assure to such. as be must quantity
is in the gearbox The percent "fill" around gears. ply
es- lubricated gearbox, with the oil critical, as is it
successful as inasmuch level minimum the pecially
quan- on grease predicated is gears the of lubrication
location. as well as tity
Function 4-4.1.1
of of the dual functions fulfillment The satisfactory
be that the design requires and lubricating cooling
flow requirements Oil systematically. approached
out- from pump followed and be determined should
outlet. back to the pump system and the let through