Μ9CP. 216-202
3. Improper attention to joint and fastener se-
quiremonts. Sufficient flange thickness must be pro-
vidad to distribute loade uniformly smong the pro-
loaded tension fastontrt (bolte or studs) use 3 on case
flange joints. Fastoner proload must be sufficioni to
maintain tension st -65*F. proclude strees reversals
during normal oscillatory loading. and maintain
designod flanges with compatible faste.er spacing. α
conservative value for fastener tonsion londing Π, for
moment-loadod cylindrical joints is given by
NaE Σ.Μ ib (4-62)
wherc
Μ - mosnent, in.-lb
Dsc = bolt circle diamciar, in.
N - number of bolts or studs (oqual spacing
aseumod)
Tbe yield and uitimate streagths given in MIL-
HDUK-5 for standard AN studs represent he
minimum valur obtained with proper instaliation.
Howovor, manufacturing characteriatics ofen have α
more deicierious cffect upon the installed sincngths of
qua og sae;ε sep uodn wq ppe NV sguus
maximum practicabic perpendicuiarity for tapped
bolos, tise conxbined effecis of taper and squarcncas of
'u!-8/E sq qns pueq Anpuag aonpu! Som pugof
sorios studs domonsarate icasile failure at 90% of
handbook ssiscinsume values. Thc significancr of thie
is protably betier demcastratod by thac fact that
trpicut 7/16-in. dismsicr studs peually demonatrate
double the inrialied teosilc strength of comparable
3/τ-is. Ciasel : studs with approaisate cast and
waight penaltic. of 10% asd 25%, reapectively.
Biind tappod boles for siuc installation saust be
vented.
When torquc must be transferred throu.η α fiange
joint, & orque capecity Q, is the aboarce of external
bension londs is givens by
1.25 Q.ND (4-63)
Dro
Q. σ8ad torque. ib-in.
N = aumber of siude
Dro. Dac - bot cicke diameter, in. - stad pitch diametar, ist.
ond tihis velug, dowels, keya, or othsr mechaaical
lscking devious abouid be ueed to prevan: bending

and shoar loadiag of the studs. Although it is com-
mon to consider stud shear strengih in determining
ultiruate joint strength, chis factor should pot be
reliod upon for normai dosign torque analysis.
The joiz: canfiguratson theorctically pooessery to
mout the strength roquirements having boen de-
torminod, it boconsos imperative to assure com-
putibie detail deeign of tbe machined surfaces for tibe
fastoners. Fracture resistance as well as fatiguc con-
siderations roquire careful ationtion to secmingiy leu уп:
significant dotail. Genorouz Silct rudi snust be pro-
vided in spotfaces, coupterborss, and keyways. All
abarp corrers maust be chamfored, and fcather edges
musi de removed to minimizs sireee cunccniration.
Smooth bleading of intersoctions on critical
machinod surfaces is also α. xeesary to minimize stress
concentration. Additionally thc counierbore or spot-
face size maust be adoquate to provide wre.ich clear-
α.sce for pormal mainicnance operations.
4. Failure to consides doflection and loading in
contiguous structuze. Many record instances of gear-
box mouating lug failure are sttributabic to ex-
tornally induced Joade that vere ignored in the design
analysie. Tbe east &earbox structurc. wh: ' often iz
stifier tbas tbse aicirame struciure lo wnici it is
mounted, may provide α load path for bending and
for torsion reactions present in the airfragie structure
due to kodisg gear, roior tkrust, or vibratory re-
sponees. Examples are the atluchment of α four lug
aapposory gvarbox to α deck structure that bae verti-
cal bending modes, or the similar mounting of ass in-
tarsuaciate geerbos oe tail boom structure that un-
dargoes torsional defiections vith largr tail rotor
piach inputa. Becauee it is dasirable to obcairs tiae saíε-
ty isberent witin mounting rodundancy. it is usunlly α
aned practias eithar to pror: de gresthy stiffaned air-
fromc strusture locally or τ : introduce sdôtional
compliance at oue of mof. gearbox altachment
puisis by uae of elastomeric memburs. Boefing up the
guarbox ofieal mereiy modifies tihc faihure modc.
4-2.3.8.2 Moseriads and Pre
Magncsium kas: feilan into disfavor Compared to
aleamisum for cases and bousiags becave shortaring
of sesvice life dase to corrosicn has become α
significant maintanance and spases repioccment ex-
penae to tbe Army. Decauce mngresiuaa is as: sdic
with rapect to ali other metals, failure to cmploy
adequase das ign. procns, and preventive main-
tenence meusures has caused an overenphasis of the
dodiciencios of thc material. Dare magnucisun ac-
trally is effoctod less by expoaure to snarine at-
monplere tsan is uaprcieciad miid stael (Ref. 101).
Homgver, corrucion of megnesiuen allovs can be