C,
gearbox or, if separate, sur- Coolers integral with the
rounded by protective components or structure are
possibilities. The use of either auxiliary systems or ar-
mor plating should be considered only as α last
resort. The integral oil cooler has been shown to be
effective (Ref. It 116). virtually eliminates the need
for external plumbing and minimizes the ballistic
threat !o the gearbox oil system, and the inherent
protection of the surrounding airframe structure is
enhanced by proximity of cooler to gearbox. Α
pressure bypass has been used to divert full oil flow to
the gearbox oil system to circumvent oil flow to the
cooler in case of ballistic strike on the cooler.
The manifold is an oil distribution mechanism that
tempera- normally houses the oil pressure regulator,
ture sensor, pressure sensor, and distribution
3il passages. is carried from the manifold through
gearcase internal passages to oil jets for pressure
lubrication of gears and bearings with direct im-
pinging streams of high velocity oil. Internal passages
also can be provided to direct oil to bearings encap-
sulated in housings and liners,
Externally mounted oil system components such as
pumps and filter housings often present sealing prob-
lems and service problems associated with the seals.
Gaskets and O-rings normally are used for sealing be-
tween the mating parts. Components requiring fre-
quent removal can more effectively be 0- sealed with
rings then gaskets. The compressed gasket material
adheres to both the sealed surfaces, and mechanical
removal of the gasket residue often is required. This
becomes more difficult around studs: Each gasket ap-
plication generally is unique and hence maintenance
support requires stocking of unique 0- parts, while
rings are stocked for multiple applications and are
supplied from α common stock. Gaskets possibly
have α cost advantage by virtue of the elimination of
the O-ring groove. Provisions 0-rings for also can
result in slightly higher weight than for gaskets.
Some system protection is provided by gaskets by
Spressure
their inherent ability to "blow out" in case of over-
surges. Where close tolerances must held be
between locations within the mating parts, the use of
α gasket becomes impractical. The gasket material
can compress and generally is not consistent from
one gasket to another. In this case an O-ring should
be used.
χ
Σ 4-4.1.3 Special Considerations
High flow oil systems may require multiple cle-
men^ pumps. Constriction free inlet design, high ro-
tational speed, and high flow rate may not be at-
tainable with α single element pump. Multiple ele-
ment pumps (or more than one pump) also may be

C 7Ω202
α dry sump design, when α scavenge necessary in
pump is required. The scavenge pump extracts oil
from the sump area and feeds it directly to the pres-
sure pump or to an oil inlet sump for the pressure
pump. Oil return requirements. sump capacity, and
turn-around time must be compatible. Α 20-gpm flow
requirement with an 8-qt sump capacity results in
complete turn-around of the oil ten times α minute. If
the height of the gearbox is appreciable. with ex-
tensive baffling, there is α danger of pump cavitation
and interrupted lubrication. Even without the danger
of interrupted lubrication the oil has insufficient
dwell time for deacration. Therefore, excessive
foaming and inadequate lubrication or cooling are
possible. Turnaround frequencies greater than 3.5-4
times per minute become questionable with respect !o
proper deacration and attendant cooling charac-
teristics. Adequate film thickness is difficult to
achieve relative to surface finish in loaded contacts
when low viscosity synthetic oils are used for gear
and bearing lubrication. Boundary lubrication states,
often characteristic with low viscosity oil, can still
provide adequate wear life in gear teeth and bearings
but the surface roughness must be low enough to pre-
vent progressive metal-to-metal contact (see par. 4-
1.2.1).
Synthetic oil, especially MIL-Λ-23699, has α
moisture absorption capability and its lubricating
ability is diminished by moisture content. Hence, ex-
treme care should be exercised lo- in the design and
cation of gearbox vents to prevnt water ingestion.
Areas where atmospheric air can impinge directly on
shaft seals also should be avoided. Positioning ro-
tating shields in front of shaft seats is α very effective
,means of preventing dust, dirt, and moisture-laden
air from being ingested into the gearbox.
Secondary effects of moisture absorption are in-
ternal corrosion. Synthetic lubricant that is con-
taminated with moisture becomes highly corrosive to
the bare steel parts inside the transmission, with the
lower roughness surface finishes being particularly
suisceptible. It should be noted that once contami-
nated with water, MIL-Λ-23699 does not release that
water when heated to normal operating temperature
(>212°F). Therefore, both the poor lubricating
quality and adverse corrosive tendency are present,
and every effort should be made to prevent moisture
absorption.
The most consistent problem facing the designer of
oil lubricated gearboxes is proper sealing. Leaking
seals represent the single largest replacement item or
cause for removal of gearboxes in the military heli-
copter (Ref. 33). Although it is infrequent that α seal
leak rate is sufficient ior depletion of the gearbox
4-85