I...
from relay. Acceleration is rapid to 90 speed I OD%
APU, hoeemyhv yasfe av
mcucteaclrto ;-cbten9 ν
contol vlveto rgulae ir α beed α uncton o
haust gas temperature. in the Α thermocouple
tailpipec can signal α circuit componert, solid~statc
which, in turn, gives α modulating signal to the
control valve. he valve I will open so that maximum
continuous exhaust gas temperature maintained. is
Thus, maximum bleed air available from the engine
obtained. Large shaft power requirements require
careful examination of transient opt.-ation, because
rupid response may be needed to avoid overtempera-
ture shutdown. If the compressor is marginal
the load stability. control valve may σ'heduled be
small amounts of air during to bleed transients
vent compressor stall.
Output load controls for electrical, hydraulic,
Icomponents.
direct shaft power arc regulated aircraft by system
3-8.3.1.4 Ilectirk-al Control Location
APU-mouznted control components include
driven enuinment: sensors for temperature. Dressure,
and ignition components.- anti other ads!%ccd. valves
components capable of withstanding control
temperatures. Solid-state sequencing partment
trols. suppily, load-contsol valve controls, π~ower
miniaturized relays, and malfunction in~dicators
airframe-mi tinted be so as to lai-it temperature;
2001I or below. required, some these If compo- of
nents can be mounted on 'he air inict collector
other ducting temperatures %vhere cani be limited
air. incoming to heat transfer
Elecirk-all Μ3-.31.5 Prower Reqsareme ts
the If aircraft can provide small amiounts ofeclectri-
cal power, the APU system is simplified. About 4
24 adequate V'is to operate most APU relay σ3-stemb,.
Battery' systetms suffer from ambient temperature
limitations in that the battery must be kept
0 above) (0 F to permit or the -65OF APU
required by MIL-Π-8686.
no If batteries art available, APU-drivcn an
and control tion generator can supply start and
sequencing power. Such α system requires α stored-
energy APU start, such as hydraulic or pneumatic.
Voltage buildup must be very rapid so system that
quencing can begin early to (5%) achieve low self-sus-
~\ taining speed and good cold starting.
") 3.3.2 Fue,! Sysiein Controls
The fuel system must provide APU ý;ontrol%
automatic starting. acceleration, and rated speed

AMCP 706-202
for governing throughout the operating dcrined envelope
Techniques o for scheduling fuel may bc mechani-
orpecidicatr
ι, ithe 0% χ oniode Th lcrncsystemis at-
ex sped cotro. prtectve retc requirequrdd ircuts
APU In most cases, however, the system require- APU
ments are simple an~δ are handled best by niechani- α
load.- cal governor with aceic.ledtion fulnwshdldby
, compressor discharge aure. vre'
The APU fuel system cnitofhefuel supply
is (common with the main engine(σ) ), airframe-
mrounted boost pump, and fuel lines (with shutoff
α and check valves) connected to the APU. An inlet
filter of capacity, but small micron rating, large pro-
on vides clern fuel at the APU fuel pump.
to
pre- R~ted Speed 3-8.3.2.1 Govevning
The APU speed-regulation requirements genemitly
or are satisfied droop by governing, as explained for the
main enginc in Chapter 8, AMCP 706-201. speed Α
band (droop) of' 2-4% through the load range is
adequate for coitrol at 400 frequency Hz power. AC
all Peovided bleed airflow and pressure requirements
are ment, the speed band is not critical for bleed air α
.ArU. Sopccd recovery and stability specified in bee %vill
the model specification. It reqi'ired, APU isochro- ccm-
con- nous gover ning to hold speed within α narrow bond
can acccinplished (±0.25%) be null system. Top- by α
shall ping speed adjustments should be provided to ac-
to count for installation differences and deterioration of
the efficiency of the or driven equipment APU
overhauls. between oi
by 3,3.2FlrngRjrmes
eqieet Fitrn 3-...
Filtering has been problem α on some military heli-
comter installations, Combat situations have resulted
in contamination beyond .fuel original expectations.
Α, Servicing oi components in the field also can intro- duce contami nation, which must be considered.
To keep required maintenance at α minimum.
warm AI'U Filters should of be extr..-large capacity, or of
starts self-purging configurationi. Α high percentage of fuel
control, valve, ance nouzie failures results from con-
igni- taillination damage. Sources of con~tamination in-
run or component vlude line contamination duriing ser-
vicing and wear products generated interiially in
pumps and μ.)ving parts.
se- Screens or filters inicronic shall placed α~τ ,χ he va
aod nozzle enti ances to prevent passage ot pa! ticles
during assembly, left installation, or field mainte-
nance. Α PU fuel rump midi and ou- let fiPers.'Jiall he
for stand;ard equipnicnt and of the throwauay type. The
rated micron size of filters should as large as pussi- he
3-:9Q