706-202 AMCP
specifications, if any Applicrble 7.
or other 8, of cooling - blest, self, Type
prc.surc available blast cooling, α. If
β. Temperature of air
range temperature 9. Ambient
Altitude requirementsi 10.
pad facing engine rotation Direction of II.
ratio pad gear to starter/gener.dtor 12. Engine
sapply for starting: Power 13.
type and voltage α. Battery,
type and .altage power unit, β. Giound
for standard speed curves versus torque 14. Engine
 0 applicable the lowest -65 F (or and conditions
not thtsc whether or plus α notation of temperature),
and gearing accessories include curves
shown on curves if not speed light-off Engine IS.
shown on curves speed if not cutoff Starter 16.
speed to light-off Maximum allowable time 17.
speed to cutoff time allowable Maximum 18.
idle at engine pad rpm 19. Starter/generator
cruising at minimum rpm pad Starter/generator 20.
speed
engine rpm at maximum pad Starter/generator 21.
speed
22. Required generator output and vo!ftge under
all speeds in range of regulation
V
0K
,I
3
- IN. 4 SCALE ,•.
DC 1Fitre 7-7.
7-10
= •••'• : '• ρ 1••'• :' ••ρ''•

K.
generator output used Percentage of maximum 23.
cruising speed at engine
speci- type and applicable regulator 24. Voltage
fication.
supply α ground power either engine starting, For
supplies power used. Ground battery is or aircraft
type, and pro- the constant-current are of generally
start- for engine source available best power vide the
where applications, of helicopter In the majority ing.
are em- aircraft batteries are used, starter/generators
24 V and The batteries are rated for starting. ployed
If (par. 7-3). cr nickel-cadmium silver-zinc are either
be connected they may are used, batteries multiple
starting the desired to provide parallel or in series
be given to but consideration must characteristics,
section shear shaft vs generator applied torque the
limitations. engine gearing and the
helicopter ap- used in startcr/gcnerator Α typical
in Fig. 7-7. shown is plications
Generators DC 7-2.3.2
electrical- is identical generator helicopter DC The
DC starter/generator, to the and mechanically ly
turn is no series that, generally, -xception with the
ciployAd ou thc main ficid winding.
preceding discussion relative to mechanical The
I
Starter/Generator
• • . . . . . .• q ," ,, :,• •