The hcat-trcatment and temper desinations
aluminum arc long and complex. The desinations
are: most frequently stamped on products
0-annealed; fabricated; H-strain-hardened
subdivisions); Τ2- (cast products only). Τ4-solution
aged. lihat-treated and naturally and Τ6-solution
heat-treated aged. and artificially The heat trcstmcnt
of aluminum alloys is detailed in MIL-H-6083.
processes commonly used are solution heat
ment. precipitation annealing. hardening, and
.small amount of cold-working aftcr solution
"treatment produces α substantial increase in
strength, some increase in tensile strength, and
loss in ductility. Rapid quenching will provide
maximum corrosion resistance, while α
quench-used heavy sections for and large
ings-tcnds to minimize cracking and distortion.
Momt forming of aluminum is done cold. The
perature chosen permits the completion of the
cation without the necessity for any intermediate
Σ nealing. Hot-forming of aiuminum usually is
* formed at temperatures of 300°-400°F, and
periods are limited to 15-30 min. When nonhcat-
be ι . treatable alloys are to formed, the tempef
Σ" - be just soft enough so as to permit the required
- radius or draw depth. When heat-ireatable alloys
used, the shape should govern the alloy selected
its temper.
To α great extent, the choice of an alloy for
is governed by the type of mold to be employed.
turn, the type of mold is determined by factors
as intricacy of design, size, cross section, tolerance,
be surface finish, and the number of castings to
duced. In all casting processes, alloys with high
narts con ,-onte~nt ee in thw prndctinmi of μ~fmi thin walls and intricate design.
The most easily machined aluminum alloy is
Τ3, referred to as the frce-cutting alloy. In general.
alloys containing copper, zinc, and magnesium as
principal added constituents are machined the
readily. Wrought alloys that have been heat-trcated
have fair to good machining qualities.
The welding of many aluminum alloys is common,
practice because it is fast, easy, and relatively
pensive. Welding is usclul especially for making
ρ,. proof joints in thick or thin metal, and the -
χ€ν be employed ω;θ either cast or wrought.
re' num or with α combination of both. The
low melting point, conductiviy the high thermal ,
expansion the high thermal pose problems.
TN• _. heating is necessary when welding heavy secti,:.
Σ,) otherwise, the mass of the parent metal will cond,.
the heat away too rapidly for effective welding.
rapid welding process is preferred in order to

AMCP 706-202
"'*
for mizt distortion due to expansion and contraction.
Molten aluminum bsorbs hydrogen easily, and this
F-as may cause porosity during cooling. Because they
(many provide α protective inert-gas shield. TIG and MIG
welding are common choices. TIG is an incrt-gas
shield-arc process with α tungsten electrode, and
MIG is an inert-gas, shielded-metal-arc process using
The covered electrodes. Α suitable flux, and mechanical
treat- (stainlcss steel brush) removal of the oxide film just
Α prior to welding. are mandatory. Certain aluminum
heat alloys 2014, 7075, etc. - arc extremely difficult to -
yield fusion weld (excluding spot welding) and normally
some would not be used in structural applications when
welded. Brazing is somewhat more and difficult,
slower soldering of aluminum ir extremely difficult. The
forg- other joining processes include riveting and adhesive
bending, both of which are used extensively in air-
tern- craft structures.
fabri- Applications for aluminum in helicopters include
an- the exterior surface 4heet-metal of the fuselage.
per- framing, stringers, beams, usages tubing, and other
heating where the density, corrosion resistance, and ease of
fabrication of alum,'ium give it an advantage ovcr 'Α''
bhuuld and steel oadulus where its high,, star-eg•,,sth, and
bend properties give it an advantage over magnesium.
are 2-?.2.3 MNgneslum Alloys
arnd MlL-HDBK-693 provides α comprehensive dis-
cussion of magnesium alloys and their properties,
casting and also describes design, fabrication, and per-
In formance data. Numerous Military and Federal
such Spccifications covering specific shapes, forms, and
π ,,:esses also are summarized. - `
j'. magnesium is its pro- ,ε outstanding characteristic of I
weight. sili- igl.ι This is important in helicopter design,.
payvload with ,,-•. ratio is α direct function of vehicle "'
,.,η Magnesium is two-thirds as hevy as atumi..
.1 2011- rm,;ω one-fourth as heavy as steel. The low densi-
• effective I in relatively thick castings, where ι\ τ
the ,σ -sed rigidity of magnesium is an additional :;ρ
hcnefit most or this reason magnesium is used fre-
q••iv., main rotor gearboxes, motor trans- .
,,:.. sings, and many other load-bearing
:ilphpii .' .mn helicopters. Most of the helicopter
inex- pm C .: have several hundred pounds of mai- .
',ak- construction. ncsiw, .
ess The ,--.: (American Society for Testing
:,- Mcr 1 • nclature system is used exclusively in .-: '•it
In -:;.ι. , ,..,sium alloys. this sytem, the first u',: . -.
the principal alloy elements, while I. .1' . ,τ
-. percentages. ν •., θ, ,ate the rcspectivi,
H I'. aluminum, F ι -. earth, ., .... .. ;ýμ. 1. Q •,, lithium, Μ manganese, . .:.,,
, .iye I ,.'inc. By this designation, AZ91C . -,o
ι. ioy mini- - of magnesium containing 9% Co..ι ..