706-202 AMCP
bined into α system employing α digital computer to closely controlled weight and balance system during
provide rapid component selection from α number of manufactufe. The prerelcac tracking of all other
random-wcight parts, blades will be made against mastcr tracking blades.
For final balance the spanwise and product The master blade(σ) are blade(σ) that have been fabri-
moments of all of the blade components, closely including cated as as possible to design specifications
adhesive, θ,. paint and are obtained for the un- and to as precise tolerances. These master tracking
balanced blade. Again, two simultaneous equations blades are produced so that, when they are installed,
can be written. The unbalanced spanwise moment the controls arc adjusted to the nominal position. It
and the forward and aft tip weight moments should then ot can be ascertained how much deviation toler.
juired be equated to the rt spanwise moment of the ance may be allowed on production blades. Consider-
master blade. The unbalanced product moment along ation of allowable tolerances includc the crew shall
with the forward and aft tip weight moments should comfort levels defined in MIL-H-8501.
be equated to the desired product moment. Solving Interchangeability with mauter blades must be
thesc equations simriltancously will yield the ad- determined either on α tiedown aircraft or on α
ditional weight required at each location for dy- suitable towcr prior to relesou for random installa-
namic balance. Α summary of the balance procedure tion. At least one master blade must be tracked with
is shown in Table 5-3. each group of production blades. The blades should
By establishing each α weight tolerance for of the speed be tracked at several rotor settings typical of
major consistent selective components and using α those that will be encountered during operation and
method of part selection, the blade assembly will, in at several values of collective pitch, with rotor speed
nearly all cases, balance within the capacity of ad- held constant. Track readings be taken for each shall
justable weight attachments. Upon final assembly setting. of blade at each speed and pitch Typical data
the blade, it be balanct,-checked againzt shall α master are shown in Figs. 5-29 and 5-30.
blade. The tolerance on the actual balance depends
iu -oil uzolt. Woil iy; of' C.γ., fully itiuiulait UK
- the of Tolerances the blade. of size the and hingeless, 1.β -
order of 10 in.-oz are not uncommon. ι.0- This physical 3
balance of the blade must be performed on α balance
blade spanwisc mo- the stand capable of registering _ ADE Ba
ment o to within the specified tolerance. Weight should -- Σ
_ be added or removed as required to balance the new χ
1 that as established be master balance The shall blade. 0.5
blade to which all other blades of α particular part 1.0
series number or be balanced. This demonstra- shall
tion be accomplished by balancing each blade .... -Τ... . shall 1.5
either directly against the master balance blade or 200 210 22Ω 230 240
for which the mass balance against α calibrated HUIQ4 WEED. rpm
master blade was the calibration, stanrakd. Figure 5-29. Track rpm With Varying
The spanwise teeter balance discussed previously (Zero Collective Pitch)
flywheel demonstrates blade will be in only that the
balance chordwise dynamic the however, balance; 1.5
still may be out of tolerance. Dynamic chordwis.
checkcd balance, therefore, must be by tracking the .- Β-Α-
blades at various rpm If and collective pitch o0.15 settings. Α
selection the of parts was controlled during the fabri- " -- --
5 0 as such adjustment, minor α blades, the of cation
moving adjustable tip weights forward or aft, will 0o..
correct any dynamic chordwise deviation.
"J3.33 Track 1.5
"To confirm interchangeability, each blade should 7 4
be tracked prior to its release for installation. How-
ever, tracking of hir4eless blades is difficult because COLLECTIVE PITCH 0 . 0 "the 5-3, Interchange- With Varying Collectbe Pitch small. Fipure Track deflections at the tip arc
"ability rpm) (Comntat Rotor can be confirmed by using α of these blades
5.49