Jams than that oef machining. Extrudod shapos ofien
cau replace *aldants and paris previously ma-
chinod frons bar sioat. Mhe cost of extrusion dies is
matively lon, making riort runs practicable. Ex-
trudod irscka and ralta, buame, bars and tubos, and
stringers find ruedy cpplication in balicopter struc-
tures.
37-2.5 SHEET-METAL FORMING
In addition to fargs serface areas, such as fuselage
shells and skins, a muititude of smaller parts are
made by shoct-metal forn:isig. These include straps,
brackats, clampa, cupe, presure housings, headers,
inseris, grommets, siringers, and conduits. Sheet
thicknene normally is 0.013 to 0.141 in., but thicker
blanks may be usod for various draw-forming opera-
tions. Shrer matariais frorn which metal parts for
helicopters are formod inciude aluminum, titanium,
and stainious stoel.
17-ζ.Σ.1MAachise Forming
Mfany sicct-moctal parts are made by machine-
blanks. The operations take piace within dics, which
are mounted on various machines designed to supply
thr: forcos 1o ahape the matarials in the dics. There are
dies for cutting. bending. squoezing, and drawing.
The material may be subjoctod to a combination of
several, or all, of thesc operations in a single dic or in
a suecession of dies. Ccrtain operations are named
for the manner in which the force is applied.
By far the largest amount of cutting, bending.
squeezing. and shallow drawing is done with the drop
nuer. In this machine, a falling or powered weight
proJtccs the force required to perform the necessary
functios. In hydroforming, hydraulic preasure is furnished
by a fluid to onc side of a rubber diaphragm. This
diaphragm prosses egainat the matal blank and forms
it around a punch that moves up into the forming
mold cavity. The preusure causcs the motal to flow
ping. Hydroforming usually can achieve in one or
two operations the same reauits that woukd require
four or fivo draws in a nornal press method. It usugi-
ly is employed with higher strength alloys.
In stretch-forming, the shoet metal is puilod ou*i a
form block. The material is stretched beyond its claz-
tic limit, causing it to take a permanent set in the de-
sired contour. There is no spring-baik, but sllow-
ance must be made for dimensional changes in the
metal. Large parts with compound curvatures —
such ss the external surfaces of fucelages, cowlings.
and fairings — may be made in this manner.

AMCP 706-202
Spinning is uae. wben cold forming circular, sym-
motrical sheet metal parte such as pans, covers,
shields, and bullet nosc shapos. In spioning. a flat cir-
cular blank is clampod on a dic or chuck in a lathe
type machine. The blank is revolvod or spun and the
motal is formed over ths chuck, using hand held for-
ming tools. Parts with return flanges may br: formed
by using hand beld forming tools, or by using collap-
sible or tako-apart spinning chucks. Parts ccn be
trimmod to size on the machinc, using conventional
lathe cut-off tools. Wooden chucks can be made
oconomically for prototype and short run parts
whareas aluminum and stocl chucks are suitable for
high production.
In explosive, or high-energy, forming. shock waves
arc gonerated oy expiosives such as dynamitc,
euploding gases )r an clectrical discharge. The shock
waves are transmitted through a liquid medium,
usually water, to the work piece, fanning out in ail
directions and forcing the metal into a preformed dic
cavity. Materials of very high strength can bc formed
in this manner. The same materials formed by other
methods would have cxcessive spring-bsck, but, due
to the high energy rate and the uniformity of distri-
bution, vary litile spring-back cccurs afer esplosive
forming.
17-3.5.2 Shop Fabricadion
Although the machine-forming processes pre-
vioualy discussed are used in the fabrication of a large
number of paris, the majority of the shoct-metal work
involved in the manufacture of helicopters is per-
formed in a shoct-metal shop. Here, shoei metal is cut
into various flatwork patterns; punched, drilled,
foldod, scamed. crimped, beaded, grooved, turned,
rolled, and burred; and then joined by clinching.
soldering. brazing, weiding. riveting. or adhesive
bonding. Many design and fabrication techniqus are avail-
able to ada strength and rigidity to sinple shect-
metal parts. For example, strength can be incorpo-
rated into the structure by means of fiangas, ribs, cor.
rugations, beads, etc. These and similar meta!-
working operations can be performed either hot or
cold. Hot-working may involve little or no strain
hardening, whereas in cold-working. considersble
dislocation and strain hardening can occur. Work
hardening can produce beneficial effects, such as in-
creases in tensile and yicld strength, but accompany-
ing decreases in ducxility and toughness aiso msy
result.
Regardless of whether the shect metal is machine-
formed or worked in the shop wit's press brakes or by
hand, the metal will be subjected to bending in many
17-3