...
tl
AMCP 706-202
Ampere wire 5. per
AC V
operating) Volt-amperes (normai 6. us No 5 No 2 1
Power factor (normal operating)7111 7.
OJE
"8. operating) Watts (normal
PANSFQUALj
Volt-amperes 9. (emergency conditions, if ap- plicable)[ , "- -I ,,151200 -' 200V' 15
] ap- I conditions, if (emcrgt.ncy Power factor 10. N.2 BUS AC I- *<1 plicable)
(emergency condition, applicable) II. Watts if
I 12. Opcrating time
13. Source of the above information
INVERTER INV It from can be obtained data the prctcJing Most of _o NoX I 2
menoufacturer. the equipment In addition, the manu-
equiiment re- facturer of each piece of should be
quired to supply α component load analysis.
manufacturer-provi&:δ After data are recorded.
the remaihing information can be calculated. For α
nonautomated sysiem, the calculations can be made
28 DC 28VDC V
individually and recorded on α file card. For an auto- .US 2 NBUS N0 N,,
mated systcin, α computer can do the necessary cal-
culations as α teparate run, or they can be submitted λ
rtabulation print-out. Ifom the
After the lilt is as complict as possible, it then is
cE-η necessary to assign component α power bus in POIN, Ek-
Lf2 * _ sIyaS.Clil~It*~lll IlII1 MhiU U *UiI aIn'Ck1'. SIAARIth,6ENL•"0Α PYACtLJ it -.- -. - Sportent ε referer, item number.
FIgure 7-1. DC Power Typical Dlstribudts System
7-1.5 MANUAL FORMAT
When preparing α manual load analysis, the figare
examples of MIL-E-7016 can be used.
FORMAT 7-1.6 AUTOMATED in is shown distribution systtm sample power Α
Figs. and 7-2. The generator moanting and drive For an automated format, 7-1 the same information is
self- data and power source output data examples are required. The program may be written so that cal-
explanatory. culations done automatically as the load analysis are
The load AC equipment and power source uti- is β,-Ing processed. The information then AC can be
be,$ lization analysis charts frum MIL-E-7016 can be and τ.,ι, chaM.kL. , giv,-, . Α - ,-','';
7-5. combined on one chart for each helicopter power typical automation flow AC chart is shown in Fig.
bus. Figs. 7-3 and 7-4 for sample AC See load I. this example, α two-card system is used. The
analysis charts. The equipment components are to be first card contains the following information:
I. arranged alphanumerically. Bus
The typical transient nnalysis is requ'red only for 2 System
loads, extreme transient and, with modern generator 3. Item number
ratings, may not be required at all 4. Equipment name
The engine starting requirements data must 5. Part number β.
shown even though the helicopter is started only on 6. Volts
ground power and data does not appear in the "Start 7. Power factor
and Warm up" columre of the load anslysis chart. The 8. Volt amperce.
information will be used to determine the ground The second card contains:
starting power supply requirements. Bus 1.
If σ battery is used in the helicopter, α chart must 2. System
shows be included that theoretical charging factor 3. Item number α
versus time of operation. This chart wil! depend upon 4. Number of units
the type and size of the battery to be used, as well u 5. Phase assignment
the design of the battery charger. 6. Notes.
7.3