OF SYMBOLS 16-0 LIST
Β length, in -laminate
C - basic dynamic capacity, lb
lb - load rating for life and speed C, Λ, N,
ε - life exponent, 3 for ball bearings and
for roller bearings
interior clearance, dimensionless change in AIC -
K nonreversin, load factor, dimensionless -
 reversing load factor, dimensionless K, -
 total bearing life, hr Λ -
 Β-10 life, hr Λ
-
life, revolutions Β-10 LV - 0
 calculated bearing life at load Π, and Li -
hr N,,
 laminate width, in. _ - Λ,•.
hr life. - - ]
Μ, - ratio shaft internal of diameter to
dimensionless bore,
to outer diameter ratio of bearing bore - Μ 2
dimersionless ring, inner
of inner diameter of bearing outer Μ - ratio
3
ring to bearing outer ring,
dimensionless
the diamctcr to outer ratio of bearing - Μ4
housing outer diameter, dimensionless
 rotational specd, rpm N -
bearing for fraction imposed on - ýpeed N,
τ;mp rnm ρ
N rotational speed at which the capacity - 1
is determined, radial load equivalent
lb Π equivalent radial load. -
lb equivalent steady ioad, - Π,
fraction load imposed on bearing for Π, -
lb time ι,
lb speed N,, load fcr prorated
-
lb load, steady Π,
lb vibratory load, Π,
 radial load, lb R -
shape factor, dimensionless SF
 thrust load, lb Τ -
laminate thickness, in. τ
 fraction of time, dimensionlcss I -
V rotation factor, dimensionless -
Ξ radial factor, dimensionless
Y thrust factor, dimensionless -

AMP706202
16 CHAPTER
PARTS STANDARD
16-1 INTRODUCTION
of this handbook, Standard parts for the purposes
as as are defined those items normally used pur-
chased with no change or modifications, and
manufactured to meet industty, associa.ion, or
specifications materials. as 10/3 Governmental to size,
etc. performance, mechanical properties,
The standard parts discussed in this rhapter are
fasteners, bearings, ekctrical fittinjs, pipe and tube
controls, fittings, control pulleys, push-pull flexible
shalls, cables, and wires. The applications for and 0τ-,
limitations applicable to each of these are diacustad.
Further discussion of standard parts is found in
speed AMCP 706-100.
FASTENERS 16-2
F
bearaig -
ty;eu and available many in are Fasteners
suid consttuc- for use in the design however, futeners of
selected systems hall be mechanical tion of aerospace
MIL-STD-3I15. Generally, in accordance with
fasteners can be classified either threaded or non- as
threaded, and furthnr either reusable or non- as
screws, bolts, indude Threaded fasteners reusable.
and related hardware such as nuts and washers. Non-
threaded fasteners include rivets, pins, quick-relent
grommets. rings, clamps, and fasteners, rctaining of
or iO-LZ RKK ILU IA5NERS
Screws 16-2.2.1 rpm
χ.ontains MIL-HDBK-5 allowable design loads for
screws. all structural InstallatiQn of structural screws
of should be performed in accordance with Chapter 4,
to AFSC 1-2. Screws should be torqued the DR
compatible with the preload, practicable maximum
method. torquing applicable
con- Screw threads for structural fasteners should
form to MIL-Σ-7742 or MIL.Σ-Σ879. MIL-Σ-"879
threads ;hall be u-ed on all materials wi.η α minimum
ultimatc tensile strength in of 150 ksi or with α excess
minimum hardness greater than Rockwell C32 or
equivadent. These threads also be used in shall
applications where the operational temperatures will
con- exceed 450°F; in applications that require the
sideration of fatigue strength; for all bolts and screws
16-1