+γ.
MCP 706-202
16-9.4.1 Cable Strength
The brocking strengti of a cable is determinod by
the not mstallic cron-toctional area and ius materiai
pmpertios. The net motallic cross-sectional area
oquals the zum of the croes-ectionzi areae of all of
the individual wires, and, therefore, varics, for a
given nominal cable.
16-3.4.2 Cabke Dcfloction
The total cable deflcction may recuit from either
constructional stretch or elasic stretch. The maxi-
mim surstch allowod by MiL-W-5424 is 2% rhen the
cable is loaded to 63% of its broaking stre-gth.
Constructional stretch varies from cable to cabie.
and reeults from the small spaces prestnt between thc
wires and the strands, ans betwoen tie strands ar 3
the ccre afor fabrication. Cables usod in contro!
gystems, and where large initiai deflectiors cannot be
toleratod, are proof-loaded to remove this stretch.
The cable siouid 5e loaded to a minimum of 60% of
its breaking strength in accordance with MIL-C-
5688. This procedure also is uscì for proof-testing
cabic assemblics.
Elastic stretch results from the elong-tion of the in-
dividusi wires as thc ioad is appiicd. As tne ioad is
released, the wires return to their original length.
provided the clastic limit of tem&terial has rot boen
excceded. The elastic stretch is determined from the
product of the load times the cable length divided by
the product of the metallic cross-sectiosal area and
the modulus of clasticity.
16-9.4.3 Operating Charscteristics
The operating characteristics of a cabie are de-
pendent upon the tyre of construction and the u-
stallation. A friction-preventive compound may be
appliod during fabrication to reduce the friction of
the cable when it is bent. The number ct bends, the
radius around which thc cablc is bent, ard the pulley
configuration in which the cabie operates all affect
the ope ating characteristics.
16-9.4.4 tVtre Material
The compaaition of wire used in the fabrication of
co rosion-rcsistant steel wire rope is given in MIl.-W.
5424 and MIL-W-5693. The physical properties are
determined by the snanufacturer in o.der to mect the
requirenents f the Military Specification. Many
othcr types of materials are available, but their usc
should bc consicerecl only with the approval of the
procuring activity. Oil.er types of cable include gal-
vanized carben steel (MIL-W-6940 and MIL-W.
1511) and no: magnetic corrosion-resisting cabies
(MIL-C-18375).
16-32

16-9.4.5
The construction of the cable can take many forms
to obtain the results dosirad, as divcunesd in par.
16-8-3. The type of construction used should be
matchor with the operating rocuirements for the
cable. A system might bc designed using segments of
cables with different constructicn. Aircraft cable
measuring 7 by 19 (7 strands of 19 wiras cact) is pre-
ferred for aircraft controis because of its high
strength. good flexibility, and bending fatigue re-
sistance — which aliows it to be operated ove: rela-
tively amall sheavos.
The 7 by 7 (7 strands of 7 wires) sircraft cabic is noi
as filexible ss the 7 by 19. Since each strand is made up
of only seven wiros, each wire is larger in diameter.
Therefore this type of construction has more ability
to withstand abras:on than docs 7 by 19.
The 1 by 19 aircraft strand is considred non.
flexiblc. It shouic be usod only as a straight run soc-
tion because its minimum stretch resuite in increased
rigidity in controi sys:ems. It also is used for bracing.
etc., where its compact structure, high strength, and
minimum stretch all provide added benefits.
Othcr sirciaft and commercial cable types are
avaiiabic. Some sre designod for high cnergy ab-
sorption — as in launching and arresting systems,
towing. etc. Other configurations include plastic-
coated cable, particularly desirable for use as a hand-
hold or guard rai.; and as coniplex assemblics used
for communicetions, where electrical conductors
with insulatior: are provided inside the loaa-carrying
outer members.
16-9.5 SAFETY WIRE AND
COTTER PINS
Pins always should be madc safe. In main struc-
tural members, safety can be achieved by drilling a
hole and using 8 cotter pin or safety wire. As an ad-
ditional safety measurc, bolts end pins should be in-
serted with their large end, or head, uppermost in
order to reduce the possibility of their falling out
should they not be properiy safetied.
In general, safety wirc should be used only where
self-locking fasteners or cotter pins are not adequate
to withstand the expected vibration or stress. Safety
wire should be attached so that it can be removed in
accordance with MS 20995. Inconel (uncoated) and
Monel (uncoated) wire should be used for all general
lock-viring purposes. Copper wire that hrs bee!.
cadmium-plated and dyed yellow should be used for
shear and seal wiring in order to allow operation or
actuation of emergency devices. Aluminum alloy