In addition to testing the complete fuel subvstem. all
in accordance be qualified must components with
pas,.,cd he qualified or have must so MIL-F-8615. and
tests approved the procuring activi- by %fetv of flight
ground and flight tests are conducted. Fuel ty before
subsystem demonstration requirements arm described
in Chapter 9. AMCP 706-203.
3-5 LUBRICATION SUBSYSTEM
he Engine lubrication subsystems may an integral
part of the engine, thereby eliminating various con-
nections to the airframe and conditions that may lead
to oil contamination when changing engines. Lubri-
cation oil may be contained in an engine-mounted oil
tank and cooled by α heat exchanger.
Engines lacking an integral lubrication subsystem
require the addition of an oil reservoir, lines, instru-
cx- mentation, and α cooler - if an engine heat
changer is not available - to cool the oil. Airframe-
mounted oil reservoirs be located in the shall not
engine compartment.
Α lubrication subsystem integral to the engine
%will
have been tested completely during engine qualifica-
tion. Component testing of nonintegral subsystems
will be necessary in accordance with MIL-O-19838 to
substantiate proper rates of oil flow. pressure, tem-
perature. and deaeration. Engine lubrication sub-
system demonstration requirements are specified in
Chapter 9, AMCP 706-203.
COMPARTMENT 3-6 COOLING
is re- compartment the engine through Airflow
acces- engine-mounted the engine: to prevent quired
or fluids within equipment, other components, sories;
from structure surrounding and/or compartment; the
limits, temperature allowable max'imum exceeding
will normally temperatures maximum allowable The
be given in the applicable engine or equipment speci-
fication but additional limits may be prescribed by
the system specification. Temperatures must be kept
below the allowable limits under all operating condi-
tions, both ground 'vnd flight, prescribed for the heli-
copter for all ambienit air conditions between the hot
and cold atmospheres (temperature as functions of
attitude) given as limits by the system specification.
Further. the maximum compartment or component
shall temperature limits be exceeded following not
engine shutdown from any operating condition with
conditions ambient air anywhere within the pre-
scribed limits.
Heat rejection requirements for the engine and its
components will be provided by the engine specifica-
tion. The amounts of heat rejected by other acces-
sories or eouipment installed within the engine com-
3-14

ina. in parilncn! provided he the applicahle equip-
χ and of tranmi%,,on, In the as -. pecfaicoitior% ;in,
manufat.- the helicopter bh developed ecarho.χ,.
he rate must calculated. turer. the heat rejection
η.icd tn design values for gcar-mesh and bearing
efficiencic-. and later confirmed test (%ec Chapter by
4). When the heat rejection rates are known. surface
compo- heat-producing of individual temperature%
he nents can calculated on the basis of free air con-
section vection at the ,urface. Rcf. 4 contains α which
each treat% of the fundamental heat transfer mecha-
nisms ι.ε.. - conduction, convection, and radiation
- in considerable detail. The equations and calcu-
lation procedures for both steady-state and trinsient
heat transfer problems arc given, together with tables
charts and of values of the physical properties of ma-
terial-, needed in the calculations. Should the infor-
be mation inadequate for α given problem. an cxtcn-
sivc is list of references also provided.
rhe quantity of cooling airflo% required for
adequate cooling of the engine compartment also
must determined anal.ticallv he by heat-transfer cal-
culatioms. This flow ,,;.ally must be obtained by
forccd convection during operation of the engine.
with the residual heat remaining at shutdown being
dissipated by free convection. The calculation of heat
hdance within the compartment is complex. with
consideration of all three heat-transfer mechanisms
being required. In the design of the cooling sub-
system, it is necessary to assure that the airflow over
large surfaces such as the engine is such that the
Large uniform. approximately are temperatures
ex- in differential result can differentials temperature
Such α engine case. of the hence warping and pansion
engine loads on cause excessive which can condition,
must be engine failure. hence premature bearings and
avoided.
As mentioned in par. 3-2.6.1, an engine exhaust
compart- ejector ik α convenient means for pumping
ment cooling air during operation. The design of an
shall ejector cooling system be coordinated with the
design of the engine exhaust system, with care being
taken that the installation does not cause excessive
power loss or adversely affect engine operation by
producing an unacceptably high pressure at the
In engine exhaust. any case, the engine exhaust
shall system meet the requirements given in par. 3-2.6
(this handbook) and Chapter AMCP 706-201. Pro- 8,
cedures for the design of an ejector, or jet pump, are
given in Ref. 4. For additional ejector design infor-
mation see "'Performance of Low Pressure Ratio
for 1191, Ejectors Engine Nacelle Cooling", AIR
Engineers. November 1971. Society of Automotive
Procedures for design, including determination of the