,) ,., . ... . ..
1".1 IHYDRAULIC SUBSYSTEM
TIle hydraulic gubsysema requires checkout
nectlons φ'ρ interfacing with ground test stands
cordance with MIL-Α-5540 and MIL.C-25427.
system design should α include means for
and replenishing hydraulic fluid,
The hydraulic system relates more closely to
than any othter helicopter systera in that the
draulic fluid is transposed between the two in
complishment of the basic functions of
bleeding, ,,id filtering.
Μ.-9.2 PNEUMATIC SUBSYSTEM
Pneumatic subsystem ducting and coupling
be adequate for ground test purposes. The
coupling should be included and appropriately
marked. Where ram air turbines are used, an
face should be provided for driving the turbine
means of α pneumatic power source during ground
testing. MS 28889 high-pressure valves should
provided to interface the high-pressure
system5 with the GSE.
The designer should consider using engine
matic starters, the heWkopter is so equipped, ". it
all compreed ource of air for the actuation of
borne components. By tapping into the starter
the number of ground couplings can be minimized.
15-10 INSTRUMENTATION
SUBSYSTEMS
The mounting of instruments and subsysten
ponents permit rapid easy and inspection. sihal
justment, removal, installation, and diagnostic test-
clearance ing. Sufficient should be provided
 v.- , π.- -. --. ,ρ ... .
modules. Items requiring more frequent adjustments
or inspections should be more accessiblc than
requiring less frequent servicing.
The design considerations and requirements foi
helicopter instrumentation subsystem are described
in Chapter 10.
15&1.1 INSTRUMENTS FLIGHnI
flight Pressure-α•tuted instru••ents be All
stalled in accordance with MIL-Π-26292, and
specified provisionu for calibraticn Adll 1iw
must be correction card An attlmeter
atatic pressure when the comb.nel systen error
altimneter instrument 3 error exceeds κ 15 ft.
7 When servo-operated ins rumt nts arc used,
sary clectica, interf'ces for tct equipment should
included.
'4

........ .
15-10.1 NAVIGATION INSTRUMENTS
con- The pilot'σ compass installation must indude pro-
τ ν ac- visions for swinging the oompass in accordance with
The MIL-STD-765. Compass correction cards for each
bleeding indicator helicopter in τ'μ will be provided. Radio
navigation instruments are discussed in Chapter 8.
GSE
hy- INLE Τ UI YT
ths ac- INSTRUMENTATION
filling, The desin requirements for the lnterf.'α of the
serial vehicle subsystem instrumentation with the
helicopter and ame the GSE described In CbjAptw 10.
STRUCTURE 15-11 AIRFRAME
must The structural design engneer must include desip
ground provisions for jacking, mooring, lifting, owln&. and
transporting the helicopter all by modes tramqort of
inter- to include helicopter external airlift.
by Lift points sling or positions for the lifting of Wom
plete crash/battle-damard helicopter bG should pro-
be vided. Lift points must be designed nect to γ- the
pneumatic loads specified in and AR 70-9 MIL-Α-8421F.
Sectioning should be employed separate to the
pnem- body and empennage, the body and wings, or the
as the body section itself into constituent sections. Each
air- should include clearly identified points lifting for and
duct, load bearing. Hoisting eyelks must be provided if
hojisting is the prescribed method of lifting.
Floor obstructions of any kind ,.hould be avoided.
If these are unavoidable, however, removable
flooring - of sufficient strmigth to preclude do-
com- formation in normal use - must be provided to per-
ad- mit replacement inspection, repair, and of under-
lying structure or equipment not otherwis ac-
sible. for re-
areas All transparent should consist of easily- ,....,ι.
replaceable panels. Removal and replacement should
θ, -se be possible without the removsl of other equipment.
Bearings and universal joini. must equipped be
the with the appropriate provisions for lubrication, in-
spection, and replacement. Cowlinp will be de-
of opening or removal. signed for ease
towbars and as for matinj with Fittings required
towing iuust vehicles be provided. Lugs and rings
in- suitable for coupling with hooks used on towlirws,
thu and standard methods of towing, also should be pro-
included. vided. Jig points and fer treasuring leveling in ac-
the inclueed in be MIL-Μ-6756 shall cordance with provided
and airframe design.
Jacking facilities conforming to MIL-STD-809
rneces- sAMI be included. The desig ,ε. assure that each .Al
gear be landing can be jacked separately ω-thout inter-
. rence betw•ocn gear the jack and the landinS sys-
15-7