AMCP 706-202
TABLE 17-6. THE EFFECT' OF SHOT PEENING ON THE
FATIGUE PROPERTIES OF SELECTED SAMPLES
STRENGTH GAIN
SAMPLE BY PEENING,3
 T6 BAR PLAIN ALUMINUM ROUND 23 Z014
-
PLA'je 2024 T4 ALUM'INUM ROUND BAR 34
-
BAR PLAIN ALUMINUM 7079 T6 ROUND 30
-
FLAT SPRING STEEL 5160 LEAF 51
10 1045 PLAIN STEEL POLISHED
RC60 29 GEAR TOOTH 4118 SINGLE
 GROOVED S-l1 STEEL 54
-
0.54 % C STEEL -V NOTCHED 73
150 m POiSE r 4340 SZTEEFL Un D Bnm AP
procedure. Tool design ztandards, prepared the manufacture. by New material coipousitions or cot'-
manufacturer, should include design drafting prac- figurationio, new manufacturing processes, and new
tices, design and shop techniques, standardized tool tooling sequences are possible. F~or instance, a cast ing
specifications, types of mateaian, standards of might replaced be stamped sheet by metal, requiring
material strength and dimensions, and tool pro- forming die. a a suitable Otten, tool cani eftec~t
duction and qualification processes. economy in mnanufacture reducing by the amount of
projects, tooling fall For most will into two stages: material scrapped.
ettrMined. thic sanuence hps bam Wlwpn mrichine tale~Ine nr fm When anti the tnnfine ,wnrd-~sinn
designl of a helicopter is released for masnufactume the individital operations are fisted. An operation
drawings and specifications for of the parts and all consists of the ail of work that can dcne be at one set-
assemblies are used for tool planning and tool design. up, or Itation. Thee operations are planned in an or-der
Tool enginees consider the number of units to that be will reduce number the of special too.ls to a mini- j
produced. the required rate of production. the equip- mum. Thus, it is better to design dies for multiple
ment and resources of the plant, and contractual lirni- operation on a single press than to require individual
tationst, if any, on tool costs. When all factors have operations on a number of punch presses. The same
been weighed, the, tooling plan will defined. The be niultiple-use capability is desirable for and jigs fix-
prriduction planners then can break down the manu- tures.
facturing processe for eaclh part into indvidual Once an operation is listed, the tool to designed be
of the given opera. is determined from tht description operations.
The helicopter will have been desgedW by lion, qn- the machine to nasployed, be and a set Of dt-
gineers who are concerned priuiarily with ttw: propet tailed drawings of part the to made. This be tool -
functioning of each poirt, although they will have complete kept with assenbly drawings, subasscznblics,
S) the ill mind factors of producibility and uconomny. part details, specifications and becomes an ele- -
The tool engineer, familiar widi the mianufacturing ment of configuration contiol for the haelicopter.
rvan facilties and the tool stc'ckpilc will consider me For both prototype construcgion and production,
dsignof the part easier for economical Or trnore theat are three broad categories of tooling: shop
'~
17-21