706.202 AMCP
energy dissipated through damping with the energy
introduced by the excitation. Experience shows that
the effective overall damping, aerodynamic plus
structures, varies with the type of vibration mode,
being about 0.02 to 0.04 of critical for reactionless
modes, and about 0.04 to 0.06 for whirl and sym-
metrical modes.
From the response of the blades to the various
aerodynamic excitations, one can determine the blade
the finally, and, σ'iaft loads, and retentioq stresses,
Certain ex- gearbox and aircraft. applied to the ',oads
vibra- but not torque, put vibratooy citation orders
tory bending moment, on the gearbox; others do the
2Π-excitation on α four-way (four- opposite. Also,
blade) propeller puts no load at all on the gearbox, as
this is α reaction!ess mode, ι.ε., all the loads are
reacted within the hub.
Α propeller must have the structural capacity to
withstand the combined loading from its response to
all of the aerodynamic excitation orders super-
imposed.
Σ4.2.3 an Mamyer Gaw
Gusth and μ.ineuvers can heve significant cffects
upon propeller vibratory loads. The more obvious
effects are caused by changes in the aerodynamic flow
fields and the consequent excitations to whic'ý the
blades are subjected. Secondary effects are the result
forces. the Because inertia and motion gyroscopic of
propel- the is vibratory loads the of basic frequency
can be ac- cycles stress many speed, rotational fer
maneu- or gust α during propeller the on cumulated
ver. This is in contrast to nonrotating airframe corn-
ponents, which are subjected to only one major load
cycl during α gust Or maneuver.
Sus' ca co .,eti --
,-- ν lg-ν .... ....... lateral v. The directions: longitudinal, lateral, and vertical.
longitudinal, tore-and-aft, or component essentially
is parallel to the flight path of the aircraft, and, there-
fore. subjects the propeller and airframe to α change
in dynamic pressure. The steady torque and thrust on
blades with α suddenness that the change depends *
upon the rise time of the gust. These changes in load
can be relatively high for the large propellers used in
V/STOL aircraft because the blades of these propel-
lers are operated at relatively low angles of attack.
The change in dynamic pressure also has α direct
effect on the Π excitation I factor, and the I Π-stresses
are affected accordingly. Α longitudinal gust changes
the lift on the aircraft, thus imparting vertical accel-
erations &nd changing the wing circulation, which, in
turn, has an effect on the flow field.
The lateral component of α gust can be treated as α
change in yaw inflow to the propeller. The yaw inflow
5-62

is added vectorially at right angles to the normally
considered pitch inflow. Hence, the total 1 Π-inflow
angle is affected. Likewise, the dynamic pressure is
changed by the cross-flow component, but for the
same gust velocity the wing lift is affected less by α
lateral gust than by α longitudinal or vertical gust.
Vertical gusts have direct effects upon the pitch
dynamic pressure, component of the inflow angle, the
and the wing lift. Each of these factors influences the
and the excitations and, consequently, field flow
the verticai α lateral gust, in :he case of loads. As
air- the forward to vectorially is added component
speed. This changes the magnitude and direction of
the velocity inflow.
The current method for determining propeller vi-
bratory loads during gusts uses α quasi-steady-state
analysis to evaluate the flow field and aerodynamic
excitations. Although the propeller speed and blade
angle may change, depending upon the rise time of
the gust, it is expedient and conservative to assume α
step change in the inflow to the propeller. In other
words, the propeller is assumed to be placed suddenly
in α different aerodynamic environment without any
change in blade angle or propeller rotational speed,
__ ,,- ,.. . . .. ,.,ι,,.δ .,. .Λ . π.
in the manner discussed in the preceding paragraphs.
Propeller vibratory loads incurred during maneu. '
vers are determined by using essentially the same pro-
cedures as for ma- gusts, with the exception that the
in- ose toat limited are genral snayr neures
factors. load volving vertical
series) (MIL-Α-8860 speciications design Aircraft
maneuver each of duration time the include not do
nor α breakdown of the maneuvers as functions of airspeed. The maneuver spectrum (see par, 4-11I,
AMCP 706,201) must be available to the propeller
isav .. ...........
,,,χ that he "tat u, Th.....-........... designer so can α-.,--- tc utuc ν ,iis the propeller compone,,Lb be satisfactory.
In the design analysis, blade vibratory loads for
maneuvers in~volvintg vcrtical load factors are calcu-
lated using the procedures given in the preceding
effective paragraphs and considering that the gross
weight of the vehicle is its actual gross weight mul-
the vertical tiplied by load factor.
Maneuvers influence blade vibratory loads not
only by changing the aciodvnamic flow fields but
also by the resulting effects cfgyroscopic motion and
inertia forces In α pullout or pushover maneuver, the
angular velocity of precession is fl, equal to
(ν, λ)γ -
rad/sec V (Σ
where
 - load factor, dimensionless nz
 flight speed, - fps V