000π 206-212
An aitornate mathod of calculation is to dotc.mine
the boering life for cach condition of foad and spood
by using Eq. 16-!, and thon to calculato α total
beariag lifo by:
7 1 ,hr
where
» total bearing life, hr
= calculatod tuaring life α: load
Π,and speod N, kr
Bearing life at high specd inay be reduced
.significanity by the effect of contirifugal loads im-
posod by the rolling elements agsinst the outer raue.
The calculation of the internai boaring sireescs and
bearing life is = lengthy procedure that is coverrd
adaquately in Ref. 3. However, for the vast majority
of applications, the centrifugal effects can be
nogiectod, and. thenefore, Eqs. 16-1 through 16-6 are
valid. The effect of centrifugal force, however, must
be taken into accomt in ths case of higher rotational
spocds, sucia as shose founa in some engine roduction
gearbox bearings.
Usually, thc life of α particular beering can be in-
creaso. by α significant factor rimply by uring
bearing materiais that offer greater uniformity and
better fatigue life han Joes st ndard stoel. Table 16-1
shows approximate life adjusumont factors for several
auporior bearing steels. Consult Ref. 13 for = com-
plote discussion of bearing life. The calculated Β-10
Hife should be multipliod by these factors in order to
determine the actual &-ι0 life to be expocted from
thers matvrials. Although SAE Σ2100 air-melt stocl ie
wsed as the basis for the AFBMA ratings. vacuumn-
degamed material now is considerod to be thc stand.
ard stoel throughout the bearing industry.
!
TABLE 16-1. LIFE FACTORS FOR
ANTIFRICTION BEARING MATERIALS
LIFE FACTOR
MATERIAL BALL ROLLER
BEARINGS BEARINGS
SAE 52100 AIR MELT STEEL 1
STEFL SAE 52100 VACUUN-DEGASSED 3 2
SAE 52100 CVM 4 €
Μ-50 CVM 35
16-6

In nany helicopter bearing applicationa, the load
imposed upon the bearing is vibratory or is α com-
bination of steady and vibratory loacr. Such con-
ditions of ioading may bu converted to an oquivalent
steady load for the purpose of bearing lifc
(16-6) is greater than the amplitude of the vibratory load, cakcuations. For conditicns in which the steedy load
the mothod illustrated in Fig. 16-1 is usod. Tbe ratio
of vibrsiory to sicady load is calculated, and the cor-
responiding sonreversing load factor K,from Fig. 16-
1 is multiplior by the autual steady load to yield the
oquivalent steady load. Α similar procodure is usod
for the case of α reversing load condition (amplitude
of the vibratory load greater than the steady load).
The reversing load factor E, from Fig. 16-2 then is
mussipliod by the imposed vibratory lond to yield tho
equivalent stoady loud usod in tho life calcuiation.
Antifriction bearings are manufactured in various
tolerance ranges or classcs •φ procision. These classes
huve becn standardized by the Annular Bearing
1.4
1.3
- STEADY LOAD
Peg - EQUIVALENT LOAD VIBRATORY LOAD
Xs, dimensioniess 12
1.1
Pea - Ks Ps
1.0
0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Py/Ps, dimensionless
Figure 16-1. Equivalent Ssendy Load for
Combinatios of Steady and Vibratory
Leads (Noureversiag)