The paragraph on rotor blades discusses trade-offs
in blade geometry, section such as airfoi! and root-to-
tip taper and twist, and their relationphip to the cor-
responding parametric analyses discussed in AMCP
706-201. Design considerations that provide for
manufacturing simplicity, inservice adjustments of
blade balance and track, and the blade materials and
joining techniques needed to position masses and Sstiffnesses properly, are addressed. Also discussed are
Th paragraph rotor on propellers deals generally system fatigue lives. with
the design requirements for propellers and develops
considerations design in the same manner as do prior
paragraphs for roturs.
The paragraph on antitorque rotors reviews the
knowledge gained in recent years concerning the
desirable direction of rotation, the flapping freedom
required, the merits of pusher versus tractor con-
figurations, etc. The advent of "flat-rated" engine-
capability high-altitude systems with transmission
has placed additional demands on tail rotor control
power. Additionally, the airspeeds encountered in
normal operation have increased markedly, creating
adverse environmental conditions for tail rotors.
problems, Th.. , rn et are discussed in light of niher
the lastest knowledge.
5-2 DESIGN PARAMETERS
The selection of rotor parameters is quite complex,
interrelate-s with all other vari- as each major variable
ablcs. The basic analytical procedure for determining
rotor performance arc outlined in Chapter 3, AMCP
706-201. Included is a discussion of the tyne of para-
metric analysis required to optimize a rotor * fj'
given group of perfoimance requirements. The dis-
cussion herein supplements that description of pre-
emphasis upon liminary design procedures, with the
considerations pertinent to the detail design phase.
The parati etots that are considered in connection
with rot,.r performance include:
Uisk loading 1.
2. Blade loading
3. Blade tip Mach number and advance ratio
4. Number of blades
5. Blade twist
6. Airfoil section(s).
For an Army helicopter that will be requirel to
operate in the nap-of-the-earth and in combat, com-
plianc only with specified performance requirements
will not produce an acceptable design. Additional
design criteria that may or may not be defined quan.
titatively for a particular helicopter rotor include:
I. Maneuverability
2. Noise

section 3. Radar cross
against 4. Damage tolerance
a. Striking a solid object such as tree limb
b. Being struck by weapon fire, either solid or
HE
5. Repairability
Fatigue 6. life
7. Weight
cost 8.
Specific ably values or the will performance parameters have been prob- .. selected during preliminary .
design. CornpliaricL with the operational criteria is
dependent largely upon the materials and method of
manufactume, which will be selected during detail
design.
The design problem initially is broken down into
the requirements for hover, flight, high-speed level
and high-speed maneuvering and each is discussed in-
dependently. The considered total problem then is
offered. approaches are and some
5-2.1 HOVER
Selection of the optimum hovering rotor involves
all the performance related parameters listed previ-
ously. with the exception of advance ratio. Hover
power is divided into "induced power" (thi chs.-ge-
able to lift) providing and "profile power" ithat
to blade profile drag). chargeable
Induced Power Loading and Disk 5-2..l
The relationship between induced power and disk , -
loading is described in Chapter 3, AMCP 706-201. And:disk
more extensiv, discussion can be found in Ref. I.
Disk loading frequently is determined by factors
other than performance. Fo" example, a requirement ,
for air transportability may dictate a fuselage length
ih'witation t ' . imit the rotor diameter. l inur
Rotor downvasi and wake effects also are involved
because induced velocity is pioprotional to the .•*e'•:
square root the disk loading. ef Thus, the higher the
disk loading, the higher the induced - or hovering
downwash - velocity, which will result in increased
ground erosion and greater difficulty for personnel
and cargo operations in rotor wal'e areas.
Another flcect of disk loading on performance
concerns vertical drag, or download. Vertical drag
results from the impingemen, of the wake upon the -.
horizontal fuselage, tail, and wings (if any). The effect
of vertical drag appears as an increment of rotor
thrust required over and above the vehicle weight.
However, evaluation of vertical drag is not precise.
One of the methods described in par. 3-2.1.1.9,
AMCP 706-201, employs wske velocity distribu-
tions, such as those given in Ref. 2, to obtain dy.
"5-3