Coatrol Design 9-2.9.3 System
shall have system assemblies Flight control
pro- be or otherwise guards, clearance adequate
tecked, jam- against protection maximum afford to
foreign objects. by rming
flight-control routing avoid designer The shall
areas is required removal its which in through linkage
engine, the order to replace in
considered be shall devices tension-retaining Cable
tension cable control preventing of means α as
changes.
bolts noi system shall control of Overtorquing
operation. during friction in increased result
avoided, bc bolts special of use The shall
Design 9-2.9.4 Electrical
hydraulic components to connectioni Electrical
consis- iequiremen strength α mechanical shall hav/ε
Wires requirements maintenance handling tent with
if possible. installation in the be buried should
re- and component troubleshooting To simplify
in- components or pneumatic hydraulic placement,
integral have shall function an electrical corporating
replacement. and for removal connectors electrical
ni-o α•wt pi.•aun .χ..ir. α hl;ghcr I.•., Puiili 5
cure than can be withstood by electrical insulation.
The compounds also must be compatible with subsc-
quent processes applied to the assembly δ,,ring
manufacture, such as welding or baking for epoxy
cure or strain relief.
Proper manufacturing of electrical connectors
wire rquires that only the should enter the soldering
connection, The first layer of insulation of the wire
should enter the potting compound so as to provide
moisture kakage protection (Fig. 9-49). The braided
insulation should clamped adequately the con- be α
nector inlet, and should not enter the potting com-
pound in such α manner as to provide α leakage path.
Higher quality electrical parts should be used in
place of MS parts in critical applications where
failure creates α high probability of catastrophic
INSULATION CLAMP
WIRE
BRAID POTTING
PiWr -" Couaectow . Properly Aembl• Electrical

AMCP 706-202
effect. Detailed failure analyses of electronic and elec-
in order to determine circuits are required trical
parts is justified. priced of such higher where use
run- to prevent order in is required fix Α positive
motor is stepped possibility One actuators. trim away
operation.
braking with parallel, in actuators electrical Two
electrical indcpendent have must dc-energized, when
stroke it% complete to actuator fitst the that so inputs
braked. and de-energized be can
Design Filter .9.$
line drain the pump in installed be Filters shall
(Installation coolers. the oil eotry into to its prior
trapped downstream of the coolers will allow pump
replace α recontaminate to in the cooler particles
is impor- cooler of α flushing Proper element.) filter
tant.
should filtration central Τ-valve inst'liations, For
in- flow as the to avoid differential in order be used
9- (Fig. changes pressure differential filter dividual
50).
in. 0.070 of under hole sizes with restrictors All
filters. incorporate should
PRESSURE
6LE HLTFR
PRESSURE
FILTER
(Β CORRECT
9-50. Fiture Τ-talhe (eeiaul Filtrvaim