3-2.5.3
An incuction anti-icing subsystem sbal! be de-
signcd to anti-ice satisfactorily the induction system
witen opersting in the icing environments specifiod in
MiL-E-8593. Thc anti-icing subsysten shall/ function
from sen level to the helicopier service cciling.
If an ice detector is installed in the induction
sysemn, the detoctor shalf conform to Mil-Δ-8181.
Any failure of the anti-icing control shall result in
the anti-icing subaystem remaining in or reverting τ0
the snti-icing ON mode.
Engiae air induction sysiems can be anti-iced cither
clectrically or by the use of engine blced air. The
former (electrically) can usc α nonmctallic duct in
which thermoeiectric heating elements are cmbedded.
The latter type (blced air) has used α metallic duct
that is formed isto α double-skin heat exchanger
adjacent to the area requiring thermal protection.
Thesc bieed air heat exchangers have bcen made with
and without fins.
Thc decision between electrical and not sir systems
is made for cach helicopier on the basis of the
required helicopter mission and results of trade-off
studies in which the airirame/transmission/engine
match is considered to determinc the system which
resuits in thc lowest aircraft penalty.
3-2.5.3.1 Electrical Anti-iciug
Typically, electrically anti-iced helicopter engine
air induction subsystems require α variation in local
power density from 4.0 to 16.0 Ω/in.3 to account for
local variations in surface velocity and moisture im-
pingement ratc. Relatively large amounts of elcctri-
cal power are necessary, which results in α substan-
tisl investment in generator power and helicopter
weight.
Elcctrical systems are relatively casy to design and
test. The surface temperature of the air induction
duct normally is held to 40°F (4.4°C) for the aimo-
spheric design condition the anti-icing system is
required to meet. Calculation procedures are con-
tained in Ref. 4.
3-2.5.3.2 Bieed Air Anti-icing
Hot-air-type anti-icing subsystems usc compressor
bleed air. which nust be adequate in quantity and
temperature to mcet all requirements throughout the
power and environmnental spectra. An advantage of
tiese systems is that the related powei penalty is
applicable only on α cold day. when anti-icing is
required. In most cases, the helicopter will not be
power-limited on α colc day and. therefore. will suf-
fer only α fuel consumption penaity from the use of
compressor bleed air.

The bleed ais system presents some machanical
probleris, however. Fins. if used, muss be brazed
properly to the outer skins; otherwise. the local fin
thernai effectiveness will be zcro. Α double-skin heat
exchanger without Fns requires smalß gap heights
whose tolerances become very important. Manutac-
turing and ussembiy capabilities also beconse impor-
tant design considerations.
In α blced air anti-icing subsystem, enginc Siced air
is ducted from the comprcasor blced port to α sole-
noid shutoff valve and then into ine intake manifold
at the keading edge of the induction subsysiem inict.
The flow then impinges on the inlet leading cdge. pro-
viding the greatest heat transfer at the external Slow
stagnation point where the thermal Joad is highest.
The Nlow then passes through heat exchangers along
the inner and outer lips of the sir intake. The gap
height (minimum gap = 0.080 in.) along the induc-
ternal skin temperature is maictained ciose to 40°F.
The air then is discharged ovcrbosrd through dis-
charge slois located at the rear of the outer lip. Α
thermal switch should be csed to monitor duct skin
tempera'ure. This switch actustes α waroing light if
ihe skiz. temperature drops below 40°F while the
system ι. in operation. Actuation of the: light in-
dicutes ei her α subsystem failure or icing conditions
more severe than the subsystem capacity.
3-2.5.3.3 Anti-icieg Demonstraticn
The capability of the anti-icing subsystem must be
demonstrated by test. The test requirements are
described In Chapter 9. AMCP 706-203.
3-2.6 EXHAUST SUBSYSTEM
The design of the engine exhaust system shall! meet
the following objectives:
1. Minimize pressure loss to reduce engine power
loss. Losses usually can be held to α pressure loss of
λ'% or less. Α 1% pressure loss generally results in an
approximate 1% power loss.
2. Prevent loss of tail rotor eficiency due to hot
exhaust gas flowing through the tail rotor
3. Prevent loss of power duc to heating of the inlet
air and/or reingestion
4. Prevent overheating of the adjacent strveture
duc to impingement by exhacst gases
5. Provide maximum possible ihrust recovery.
Exhaust system assemblies usuaily are welded or
furnace brazed. The brazed asseinbly offers high re-
sistance te metal fatigue because the strength of the
material is not affected appreciably by the brazing
operation. Brazing has both advantages and disad-
vantages. It requires higher initiu! tooling expendi-
tures, has α potentially iower unit price. and usualty is
3.7