ARICP 706-202
5-8.3.3.4 Comtred Perfo aasre
A propeller control, in combisation with the
ongine conitol. must sot and mainisia the operating
conditions directed by the pilot. It must raspend
quickly and accurataiy to pilot commands and be un-
affected by undesisatse Cisturbances. Control per-
formanox is summarized in thrce parameiers: ac-
curacy, stability. and transient response. In order to
define thex characteristics, it is nacssary to study
the behavior o. the entire propulsion system over its
complete operating sange, using various analytical
techniques.
nonlinear dynamic simvlation of t'he overall system.
This involves detailed nonlinesr dynamic equetions
for the engine and the engine contro!, as weli as for
the propeller control. This simulatign roquires inputs
that define the ambient condition. surrounding the
engine and propeller — such as pressure, tempera-
ture, and fight spced — and the pilot-initiated inputs
that specify the desired operating point. This type of
prograin provides estimatas of thrust, propcller
spood, engine speed, fuel low, and many other vari-
abies as a function of timc for various types of pilot
command signais or excernai disturbances.
Fig. 5-43 shows a simplified block diagram of a
turboprop propulsion system and indicates some of
the typical input parameters to the engine and pro-
peller controls. Each of the blocks contains a matrix
of nonlinear differuntial equations that are used to
define the stcady-state and transicnt behavior of that
component.
A sisnpler analysis, provicing a good insight into
the basic control requi ancuiz, can be made by line-
arizing ine importan. -ysuem parameiars at various
discret: operating cunditions and examining the
systein bchavior for small disturbances around these
operating points. This pezmits the application of
classical servomechanisni theory to the dezign of the
control system.
Fig. 5-44 shows a typic.l linsariced block diagram
for constant-speed conurol of a tursine-driven pro-
peller system. This integrsi control sysiera will move
the blade angic until the spood arré-r goes to zero, thus
essuring that senecd spond is equal to desired speed
under sieady-staic conditic.:. Tbe governor shown
in Fig. 5-42 is such a coolot:.
Whenever rapid transient response is important,
the conteol dasigner may provide lcac compeasatioe
to improve the spood of respoasc and ibt stability
charocteristics of the syatesn. Ti: lead characterictic
compenaates for the kg tics: constnt betweco biade
angie change and speod change. In efuct, it provides
5-68

со -
cn anticipatory sugnal fos control tbat baipe to mini-
m.-E overshoots and providcs good system siabilily.
5-8.3.2.5 Control Relladticy
Becausc control maifunctions can causc serious
trouble, reliability is a vita! part of propeller costrol
design. There are two different philosophies involved
in design for reliabiity: safo-life and fail-safc.
The safe-life theory requires that the probability of
a catastrophic malfuncion be exccodingly renote.
The deaign musz have & sufficient margin of safety for
all opersting condisions, both normeal and abnormal.
Proof that a system enjoys this levei of reliability
requires extensive testing and thorough analysis of
service experience.
The sscond method, fail-safe, requires that no
reasonably probable single malfunction be allowed to
cause uneatisfactory operation. The design must ier-
clude safety devices and redundant components in
order to tolerate single failures. Sonse propeilers have
dual hydraulic systems, both controls and ac uaiors,
to provide fail-safety. This is the case espeaally for
propellers ussd for primary aircraft control as well as
fo: propulsios.
An important part of design for reiisbility is the
Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA). Such an
analysis will help to reveal arcas noeding baiter sefety
features. It also will provide an improves under-
standing of possible malfunctions so that their con-
sequences oi aircraft operation can be appraiaod
jointly by the airframe designar and the propeiler
manufacturer.
5-8.4 PROPELLER BLADES
5-8.4.1 Biade Coosetry
As expiained in pa: 5-β.i, she serortynamic size of
ere
metric performance #udas in which the treods of
performance and weight are evaluates for various
combinations of characteristics. For the parumetsic
studics, a number of important but accoodary aero-
dynamic design detaike are assured to be in a "stan-
dard" condition, to be evaluatod later.
For the compiate blsde deaign. the sucondary ano-
dynan. : dctails 3.c., thikness, planform, twics,
airfoil typc, and camuar - are chosca firat from past
experience. Major consideration is given to the an-
ticipated severity of structural loading and rhe type of
blade material and construction piaaned. Then — for
the specified operuting conditions — serodynamic
performance aud loading. aad the biade sructural
response to the loads, are computod. Wizh theae
rosultes, changes are m.de in tioc decign cetails aad the
analyses ar repcaiod until the dacired levais of acro-