I
rismn critical structural menbar, and reduces the
that single pirobability will any projectile stafagbal
hit them, but it also may increae the vulnerability of
helicopter the to any projectile that does penetrate
the citical cot .
4aign A that buries w.rienutrations of sensitive
components u aide the beL*pler core. or even hides
thern layer behind a single protection, of structural
may affect servic-bility. maintenance and Analy-
tical procedares for evaluai•g these trade-offs are
well known, but !he importance that should be
anigned to the various•values in the analysis is not so
firmly established,
Ballistic resistance is the construction of critical
components such that they are massive enough to
defeat the stated threat; for example, a control rod
constructed out of steel armor material. opposed As
to this. ballistic tolerance is the construction of a
component such that the projectile passes through
sill but the iten functions: for example, a multipivot
point bellcrank of a nonshattering composite materi-
al.
Since vulnerability reduction by inherent design is
discussed under the appropriate subsystems, par. 14-
3 generally concentrates on the armoring method.
14-3.2 DEVELOPMENT OF VULNERABILITY
REDUCTION SYSTEMS
Designing for vulnerability reduction, irrespective
of environment, involves an analytical procedure that
begins with a study of effects of enemy weapons. The
designer then determines how the existing or pro-
posed helicopter system couples into, or responds
when exposcd to, these effects. The uncertainties in
the first group of data are minor since weapon effects
are usufdly well documented; but in the area of
system coupling, they are very great, especially for
systems in the early sPages of design.
be ballistic vulnerability reduction program A shall
assess development program to with the conducted
effects of design concepts, and provide analysis and
guidance for controlling and reducing vulnerability
by the most effective means. A vulnerability analysis
of the complete aircraft is conducted as outlined. The
definitions, criteria, and general methodology have
been standardized by triservice agreement.
14-3.2.1 Vulerability Analysis
The vulnerability analysis is presented in the form
of vulnerable area as a function of striking velocity
for each threat and each category of kill. The key
threats to be considered in this study area are general-
ly 7.62 mm API, and 23 mm HEI, (low and mid-

AMCP 7o6-202
intecrity threats). The striking velocities to be con-
expected en- velocity, velocity at sidered are muzzle
gagement range, and velocity at maximum effective
stated. otherwise range unless
which The categories of il11 are mutually exclusive
are attrition, forcud landing, and mission abort. Each
is defined:
1. Attrition. Damage to the helicopter which
causes the helicopter to crash and become a complete
ki after the terminal balistic damqg occurs.
2. Forced Landing. Damage to the helicopter
whkh "aum the land pilot to (powered or un-
powered) because he receives some indication of
damage red light, (a low fuel level warning, difficulty
controls, in operating loss o" power, etc.). The extent
of damage may be such that very little repair would
be required to fly the helicopter back to base; but, if
the pilot continued to fly, the aircraft %ould be
destroyed. The forced landing kill category includes a
forced landing at any time damage occurs after
(within specified design minion duration).
Mission 1. Abort. Damage to the aircraft which
causes the unable aircraft be to to complete its
defined mission.
following The procedure and methodology are
used in :hc vulnerability analysis.
I. Target Technical Description. Detailed infor-
mation on the construction and operation of all the
systems, subsystems, and components form the major
portion of the target technical description. The
description includes a tabulation of comn all critical
ponents, listing their title and function along with the
failure mode; and the cause and the effect of a failure
on the components, subsystem, and system (see Table
14-2). All potential damage mechanisms are con-
sidered as well as secondary damage effixts such as
fires, explosions, and leaking fluids. Scik drawings
with dimensions of the aircraft configuration with
components and their its major systems locations of
of these presented areas determine the are used to
components for up to eighteen (18) attack directions
elevation 0,0; 45,0; 90,0; 135,0; 180,0; (i.e., azimuth,
225,0; 270,0; 315,0; 0, -45; 45, -45; 90, -45; 35,
-45; 180, -45; 225, -45; 270, -45; 315, -45; 0
+90; and 0, -90). Normally, the number of aspects
used are restricted to the cardinal views (frorst, rear,
left side, right side, and bottom); more views used anre
where required for improved accuracy. If a computer
is used, these drawings can be used to determiie the
input data for tGe computer. The drawinp also
should provide data concerning the shielding offered
to individual target components by other portions of
the vehicle. Additional detailed drawings may be re-
quired for critical components. citical Examples oi"
14-13