esti- an determined, been having loaes, windage and ap- that mission, α single in oil to occur lubricating
can be made. oil flow requirements of the mate The oil residue pearanc nevertheless. is presented
α shaft from leaking meal accumulated on the sur-
!uding components is so extensive that α minor
eak itself major α ef- manifests Sizag ExeP - problem. Certainly 44.2. Heat gh
fective mad designs are laboriously, if ever, achieved.
Carbon face and circumferential seals required for The maximum size renuired for α heat exchanger.
high-speed an, δ high-temperature applications or oil cooler, would be that size necessary to reject all
generally losf require an extensive test and development the heat from the tranmnission. On the other
prolpam. Elastomaric shaft for lower spe end of the spectrum, considering seals forced air con-
be may cooler oil no gearbox, the around vection successful but easily more deskned are applications
were area surface the if occur would This required. attain, to equally0difficult is often sealing
and internal low, generation heat large, sufficiently by continuously χ€-ductmd being are Investigations
the of heat to such that transfer flow distribution α u- oil seal to devlop and tm.-σ manufacture•rs
versally acceptble and usersectov λ des. ae on housing inside walls were adequate. Characteristic versally acceptable and effective seal design. Based on heat transfer rate3 from aluminum and magnesium
seal heat trans the premise σ fro in an δ magnesu that no is completely effective, one
design approach that can be taken to minimize the gearbox housings are in the range of 0.001 Btu/in.'-
leakage problem is multiple seals. Α shaft seal of con- man-F (Ref. 4). Hence, when the friction and win-
ventional design, eithi elastomeric lip seal or carbon dae loss has been determined and the surface area
face can be used in conjunction with other type has been established, it easily can be decided whether smal,
seals seal of to affect staging. One suitable method is an oil cooler will be necessary. Tail rotor drive gear-
seal to use an inner lip with an outer labyrinth seal. boxes and accessory gearboxes generally fall into this
design compact of interest the in category. However, ade- assures which seal, lip the lubricates oil The
rotor main α required for is cnoler no that rare is it provides secondary labyrinth the while seal life, quate
cooler the for requirement design general Α gearbox. of effect shielding The directions. both from sealing
from the gear- that is to reject 67% of the heat generated the labyrinth precludes atmospheric debris
wouldbnomall arcceluere eastmomerc ades σ haft we box during critical operating conditions. Critical
would normally accelerate dlastomer and shaft wear op rto.gn rly...sd ri γ η vr td sg
from collecting on the lip seal. Α rotating slinger in operation generally occurs during hover at design
close proximity to the housing on the outside ft), will gross weight in hot-day conditions (35C. 4000
when maximum main rotor power is required and
prodce urter affingand ncrasetheseaing forced air convection is minimal. As the gearbox
forer-onvectio effectiveness and gearo seal life. Oil that weeps past ξ the lip inimalAs θ
seal in normal operation can be removed through an
overboard drain. in design and material technology, larger size coolers
veroardh δ arain σ lp will be required to reject the increased amount of heat
Research with various lip bearing contact configurations that will result from higher specific gear and
for rotating shaft lip seals has shown promise during loads and decreased wetted areas of housings.
testing but no striking improvement has been ob- The physical size and configuration of the oil
and rates flow air cnd oil with together cooler, pro- to observed was lip ribbed Α service. in served
duce α pumping action that prevented oil flow from
pressure drops, can be determined with the help of
the oil side of the test gearbox. Another lip design, α the cooler manufacturer. The cooler core size and
waved contact lip, produces α 3imilar wiping action density are determined by the heat rejection require-
and retains some lubricant on the seal-shaft contact
ap- procedural The airflowq. available the and ments lubri- coincident and sealing good provides that
proach to cooler size determination consists of the
following: cation. Α radially segmented carbon seal has been ex-
following: high. for NASA at evaluated and tested tensively
4-2..2) (par. arbte ls ge bye Determing τ. semi- several of consists seal This sealing. shaft speed
4-2.2.2). (par. loss windage by and bearings, teeth. to prig-ladc rited ogeherand circlarsegent circular segments fitted together and spring-loaded to 2. Determine effective external wetted area of
areages exclsetoe ffective ε 2. slight- off lifts seal the operation In the shaft. contact
appendaiges. of exclusive is area Effective gearbox. results. contact frictionless virtually and ly
3. Apply heat transfer factor, 0.001 Btu/in.'-min-
4F for hot-day performance and power condition,
COOLING REQUIREMENTS and take algebraic difference between heat generated 4.4.2
Determination of the power loss in bearings and and heat transferred.
gears as described in pars. 4-2.2.1 and 4-2.2,2 pro- 4. If heat generated exceeds heat transferred, then
vides the basis for determination of minimum heat re- α cooler will be required to reject the excess generated
jection requirements. The gearbox frictional losses heat.
"4-86