AM!C 7OW2O
The design and installation of the altimeter system
such te that the error in indfated pressure alti- shdal
tude at sea level in standard atmosphere, excluding
calibration instrument error, does not result in α
ft reading ft mere than 30 high nor more than 30 low
in the level flighi speed range from 0 mph to 0.9 times
the maximum speed obtainable in level flight with
rated rmm and power.
9-3.4.2 Rate-of-edlml ladlcator
the same static The rate-of-climb indicator uses
pressure source as the altimeter. Α calibr'sted flow
restriction is placed in the unit to restrict the passage
of air into the instrument case when the measured
static pressure changes. The time lag associated with
this pressure change is used to obtain α pressure dif-
* .• ferential on two sides of α diaphragm. This pressure
in change as mechanically displayed is differential
sea "pressure standard at with time altitude dIIdi
level conditions. The re:ationship is in accordance
with the hydrostatic equation for small differences.
lb/ft" 9 2 τ pa,(Α AP ), - - )
where
2 ac.leratinr due to gravity. ft/sec ε-
 height ditferencc, - ft AH
2 lb/ft Α Π pressure difference, -
 density at standard PSI - sea level conditions,
slug/Its
The slow response time of those basic mechanisms
is now generally corrected by the incorporatior of ac-
celerometers which provide an artificial boost of air
for an instantaneous needle movement.
9-3.4.3 Airspeed Iickators
True airspeed V is the velocity of the helicopter
α.ρ wits' τ#- rcapc ,. through which is τ flvin. it ι% .,,
difficult to measure true airspeed directly. Instead,
calibrated airspeed is measured. V, Calibrated air-
speed is determined froin the difference be'ween total
Bernoulli'σ pressure and static pressure using corn-
pressible equation for frictionless adiabatic (isen-
tropic) flow. Calibrated airspeed is the adopted stan-
and dard reading of an airspeed indicator, is the same
conditions. level sea standard under airspeed true as
The difference between total pressure Π, and static
pressure is called true impact Π pressure q.
(9-3) , psi Π- q,
where
psi pressure, static - Π
- total pressure, psi Π,
psi pressure, - impact true cc
6 as of is given ir. Ref. of q, function ρ Α tabulation Vc
τ oth. with α complete derivation of tIar. equations
9-46

used in establishing the table. Airspeed indicators are
calibrated according to tese relationships.
similar In operation, the airspeed indicator is to the
altimeter. However, instead of being evacuated, the
is inside of the capsude connected to α total-presure
source and the case to the static-pteuaure source. The
senses instrument then the differencs between
capsule μ%asured pitot (totul) pressure within The Π,,,
and measured static pressure outside as shown in Π,
Fig. 9-64. The pressure differential (Eq. 9-4), q, as
indicator when correted measured by the airspeed
for instrument errot, will correspond to measured
calibrated airspeed Vo,..
 Pt. - Ps Π,'. (9-4) qo. -
where
 measured static pressure, psi Π,, -
psi premure, pitot measured Π,.
psi presu'ire. impact measured
In general, this will vary from the correct calibrated
airspeed because of pitot and static pressure errors,
and an airspeed position error correction Α must V,
be added to to obtain V,. V,.
 V,,, kt (9-5) Α - - V, V,
whee,
 VP - cal.brated airspced, kt
- measured ., calibrated airspeed, kt
Α airspeed - position error correction. kt V,
evalu- To determine its significance, this correction is
ated by flight testing of the entire airspeed system.
Specifications have been written to establish the
acceptable coastruc- instrument errors and general
tion ot airspeed indicators. Table 9-2, AMCP 706-
203, specifies requirements for airspeed indicatots.
Because of the ccmplex flow patterns around the
helicopter be in flight, the airspeed system must flight
" ..
- - - -
-
- -
STATIC PRESSURE
(Π.)
." •
...
TOTL R SUR
PR(ISSuE TOTAL
Figre 944. Alrope lUllater Σ*bsalek