.- -
AMCP 706-202
They virtually are inert to chemical attack, have ex- phenol and Thi. formaldehyde. resin is blended with
ccllent damping properties, and have outstanding dye, filler, and curing agents to make the molding
electrical characteristics. such as high dielectric powder, which is called the "A" stage powder.
strength, low dissipation factor and radio frequency Pokkders such as these min are molded for 2 at '25'F
(RF) transparency They arc used widely in micro- at 15(X) psi pressure. As the granules are warmed by
wave components and high-frequency connectors, as the hot mold, the resin melts; the material flows and
well as in wire electrical coatings, gaskets, and tcr- fills the cavity, further reacting and going through a
•minals. rubbery "B' stage. With further cross-linking it
2-3.3 THERMOSETTING MATERIALS reaches the -'C" stage, at which it is hard and in-
H M TT MT ASfusible.
lthou!h A there is a great diversity in the chemical Fillers used in typical phenolic molding powders
mak:up of thermosetting resins, they have one are fibrous in nature; their interlocking fibers act to
chaIacteristic in common: once they are cross-linked, reduce the brittleness of the cured resin. Wood flour
tl-ey do not soften be undoi heat and cannot formed is used most commonly, while asbestos and graphite
by thermofotming processes. With the application of fibers form the i.onventional heat-resistant plastics.
heat, thermosetting resins undergo a series of changes Paper and fabric fillers are used for high impact or
that are irreversible. The polymeritation reaction shock-resistant phenolics. When the powders are
that occurs results in such a high degree of cross- used for lamination or in making composite struc-
linking that the cured product essentially is one mole- turc-:. a solution of the resin in alcohol is used to im-
cule. In many cases, this results in a highly rigid mole- pregnate the fabric and then "B" st.ged. The layers
cule of good thermal stability. The thermosetting ot" impregnated fabric are laid together and then
rcsirts usually are used with fillers and rcinforce- cured b) heat and pressure.
ment. The advantages of phenolics are their low material
. - Three of the most widel. used of these materials processing costs, dimensional excellent stability.
hrc 1xvln ktia fpris lodb1rn 1 Thcsc polyc~tei iesius. anid phenolic. epoxy. are the
are employed extensively with Fiberglas fabric. %%ith teristics, and good weathering properties. They are
chopped fiber in laminates, in sprayed forms, in used in electrical components, receptacles, conduits.
filamnent-wound structures, in honeycomb sandwich housings, etc.
structures, and in combinations wood with halsa or IThe polyesters are plastics formed of chains pro-
formed shapes. duccd by repeating units of a polyacid and a polygly-
The epoxy resins arc based upon the reactivity of col. They may be aliphatic or aromatic. Familiar
epoxide the ktroup and generally are produced from forms - fibers such as Dacron synthetic fiber or My-
bisphenol-A and cpichloiohydrin. Epoxies have a lar film - are the so-called linear polye.;ters. More
broad capability for blending properties through important to applications in helicopters are the ther-
resin systems, fillers, and additives. Formulations can mosetting resins. These arc the three-dimensional or
ne so.i arm cro.-linked polyesters nex1t. '01c or F-11, U T'are- ,i that are formed by bridging ... ..
able as prepolyrners for final polymeritation unsaturated in the form, polyesters. In this the polyester is
form of powNders and liquids with a ide range of vis- % supplied as a syrupy liquid that %hen mixed with a -
cosities, Some cure at room temperature, while others small amount of curing agent, ,pplied to a fabric,
require curing at elevated temperatures. The powders chopped Fiberglas, or filament tow, and laid over a
may be transfcr-qilded byi machine, and the liqiids form - rapidly reacts so as to establish a rigid struc-
he may cast. Mure-oftcn, the ture. liquid is used to ini- Such structures are of particular use for ra.
pregnate materials for bonding. domes because of their RF transmission and excel-
and im- weaaherability. high modulus They have is their lent of epoxies characteristic outstanding The
and tensile well as excellent flexural pact strength as an) sur- strong bond with almost to form a capability
to may be cast in order in ad- properties. The polyesters reason. they are used widely face. Fur this
materials. glazing produce high have produtcts molded The formulations. hesive
dimensional stability over a %ide range of tempera- Another highly cross-linked family of polymers
tures and hunridities, excellent inmchanical and shock consists of 1 the urethanes. hese arc formed by the re-
resistance, good retention ) of properties at 50091-, and action ot isocyanates with esters and unsaturatcs. In
excellen! electrical properties, the process, carbon dioxide is evolved and forms a
The phenolics are the oldest and the least cx- highly porous structure. "[he stiffness ranges from
pensive of plastics. the 1 soft, -thermosetting he basic resin rigid flexible foams highly to foams. The flcxi-
employed is ianufactured rc,actiorr by weans of a bet ble foams are for cushioning and padding ncii
2-9