)
AMCP 706-202
with α load-deflection curve conforming closely as as The characteristics of available glazing materials
posaible to the bane The long stroke of such α are reviewed in par. curve. 2-3.5. Additional information on
limiter, however, could allow the cargo to move properties sin the of the matorials are available in Part 11,
ecessigive distanca within the compartment. MIL-HDBK-17.
It is recommended in Ref. that 5 Class Β cargo The optical quality of the windshield must be
(vehicles, etc.) be restrained to withstitnu the 80θ- maintained under all conditions of loading. To keep
percentile crash pulse of 13 γ, rather than θ.ε 90θ- opticai distortion to α minimum. flat panels should
π~rcenitile pulse that defines the restraint criteria for be used to the maximum extent practicable. In any
Class cargo. Α The rationale is that personnel rarely case, considicration must be given to the deflection of
are carried in the cargo compartment with Class Β the windshield under load and to the effect of these
cargo, and, thscre'orc, only that the relatively remoie deflections upon the optical characteristics. The
flight cme need be protected from shifting Class Β loadings that result from thermal gradients acrosb the
cafgo. Fig. 11-9 shows the load-deflection windshield must re- considered be :,eparately as well as in
quiraments pertaining to load-limiters restraining coin jination with pressurc loadings in order to dc-
Clas cargo. ttrimine the critical loading condition. The effect of Β
an antireflective coating used to reduce the glint from
11-4 TRANSPARENT AREAS the windshield and canopy must jinduded be in deter-
shdl The design mining the thermal loading. by requirements as established be
~the helicopter system specification categories of Ijistahation of is -Two σ'lazing -materials described in par. I
transparent are apparent. One category areas is ?~art MIL-HDBK-17 also contains 2-3.5. 11. α tho-
represented α windshield that must ι.;,hstand rough discussion of the design of thc "edge at- by
direct airstream loadb, possibly including impact tachments", or means of fastening α Slazing material by
birds. The other category is represented an ob- to an airframet. by With regard to the structure, it is
cmmended ρ or ro-rt pr-sh thatt on.-.inac trnt~π ν.....ie, !=.*α =-mo.wn-- fnr floor 1---φ
of the crew or passenger compartment. Such α win- self'-supporting, ι.ε., not dependent on any structural
dow is subject te indirect pressure loading. positive or support from the window. This is pi.rricularly im-
The dc- negative. portant for window openings within doors.
CLASS Β CARGO fXCNRLE..φ~C!
-LJ
LUL
C-,
CA",
-IL
R (BASE) C URVyE ~LOWE
)CONTROLLED
in. DEFLECTION Ξ,
11-9. Class Β Cargo Forward Λ~ad-deleion Eniedop Figur