706-202 AMCP
(CHAPTER I
INTRODUCTION
AMCP 706-202, Engineering Design tinstallations. Handbook, and Evrluation of a full-scale mock-up
is of the complete helicopter Helicopter Enginre.-ing. is a major part Parr of the 7wo. de- Detail Design,
the second part of a th:¢¢-volume hlicopter sign review process. The requirements for this review
engineering design h~ndbook. The preliminary are described in dctail in AMCP 706-203; but the
design (covered in AMCP *vclopcd 706-201) is construction and inspection of the mock-up must be
during the proposal phase. at which time all sub- completed at the earliest piactical point of the detail
systems must defined be in sufficient detail to deter- design phase to permit the contractor to complete the
mine aircraft configuration, weight, and pcrfor- desibn and manufacture of helicopters for test and for
mance. The detail design involves a reexamination of operational deployment, with reasonable, assurance
all subsystems iri order to cach clement define the tOat configuraion is responsive to the mission ec-
thoroughly the with aims of optimizing the aircraft quircments.
with regard to mission capability as well as cost con- Also completed during the detail design ohase are a
siderations. variety of analyses necessary to substantiate the com-
Detailed subsystem specification requirements are p!ianci of the physical, mechanical, and dynamic
the basis for in-depth analysis and evaluation of sub- characteristics of subsystems and their key corn-
system charactcerstics and interfaces. Based upon ponents with applicable design and performance re-
complete system descriptions and layouts, perfor- quirements, including structural integrity. The analy-
mance, weight, end cost trade-offs arc finalized. sis required during the design, development, and
Periodic reviews of the design are conducted to qualification of a given model helicopter are those
evaluate mairtainability, reliability, safety, produci- specified by the applicable Contract Data Require-
bilhty. and spc.i.fication require- List ('Dr L-). .oriforniancc , with icis
meents. This volume reviews the functions pcrformre by
Development testing may be required to permit the major helicopter subsystems and outlines the re-
evaluation of alternate 5olutions to design problems quirements app!icaolr to the design and installation
or to obtain information adequate for trade-off in- of eaich one. Principal documentation of the detail
vestigations. Appropriate consideration of human design phase is the final drawings of the helicopter in
engineering factors often requires evaluation of infor- sufficient detail for procurement, fabrication. as-
mal mock-ups. sembly, and installation. This volume, therefore, aiso
SWeight control is an important element of the iincludes discussion of materials and processes per-
detail design phase. Subsystem weight budgets, pre- tinent to the ),-nnufacture of bclicopter components.
pared on the basis of the design preliminary group This volume is intended to pruvide designers.
wCight hreakdown, arC aasiýzsed at the initiation of engmnrr, to the helicorptev tech- rew relaltvelv
the detail design phase. The continui-ig evaluation of nology, and program managers a general design
compliance with the budget as an essential part of the guide covering all of the helicopter detail design
manzgement of the project and the awsurancc of corn- specialties. however, it is not intended as a source of
pliance with weight guarantees of the helicopter de- detailed design procedures for use by the ex-
tail specification are described in conjunction with perlcnced design engineer in his specially.
the discussion of the Weight Engineek'ing function in Throughout this volume the mandatory design
ANICP 706-201. reouiremcnts been have with identified the con-
The requirements and procedures for airworthi- tractual language which makes use of the word
ness qualification and proof of contract compliance To assist in the use of the handbook in the ".shall".
for a new model helicopter for the US Army are planning or conduct of a helicopter development pro-
defined and discussed in A which MCP 706-203. ik the gram, the word has been italicized in the "shall"
third volume in this handbook serits Qualification is state.ment of each such requirement.
not time-phwed. but is a continuing part of the ac- Since: the mission requirements for individual heli-
quisition program. A number of qualification copters result in variations between subsystem con-
requirements are integral parts of the detail design ef- figurations and performance requirements. the pro-
fort. curing activity will specify in its Request for Proposal
Desipr. reviews by the procuring activity are re- (RFP) the extent to which the design requirements of
(quired during the definition of subsystem configura- this handbook are applicable to the acquisition of a
ons as well as during the final design of assemblies given helicopter.
--. I-I