corm- pla ary ao aquirne may be reaibang pear
Deflection contact rms litnmt. plianot and
of planet dstrmination accurate permit data
cumulative of tooth spacing sharing analysis and
aleent and mounting error; adequacy of beaz.,;
be may also levels torque out clamp and rigidity
and output shaft Compatibility of inpat vestigated. deflctios wih • equiemens ma be valuted
deflectiens with sal requiremetnts may evaluated be
additiou. ini
are customarily gages indicator dial Multiple
opplications to obtain the with incremental load
neosary generally is It data. deflection quired
usually housing modifications, extensive perform
located drilled holes, to form of strategically the
of red-lead Application suitable measureicrirts. mit
tooth members, followed by slow paste to gear
tation under the designated of the drive system
used to obtain witness quc or braking load. is
tact patterns.
Commact Tests 4-1.4.2.3
par. *ν described paste technique red-lead The
gear contacts. only on information supplies 1.4.2.2
innit* al, tmi thait aophisucatcd coniac umoie
need extensive does not and yet bearing study tailed
gas and copper plating uses rework housing
elements (gear contacting this test, For dation.
races) are flash. outer bearing and inkier and pinions
thickness) maximum in. copper-plated (-0.0001
The oil. without assembled the gearbox then is
simu- that in α manner mounted is gearbox sembled
shaft each and installation helicopter the lates
input The escape. air permit to vented is location
elements to rolling permit to slowly rotated is shaft
acsu.me and then statir tnfhume their proonr 1vw-_tionnu
is applied. power rating design to equivalent
into bled is slowly gas, as such reducing HS2,
through an orifice near the upper gearbox, preferably
All exposed copper surfaces are gearbox surface.
dized to α black tarnish while the Herizian contacts
remain untarnished. After the gearbox is purged
completely with fresh air, the unit may be disas-
evaluation. and examination detailed for sembled
debign with compared carefully be should contacts
assumptions.
and Disasembly Assembly 4-1.4.2Α
of ease evaluate designer the that is essential It
of the gearbox, suitability sembly and disassembly
of physical inter- standard and special tools, absence
assembly. incorrect for opportunities and ference,
to suitability Special attention should be given
safetying specified for nuts, torque values
or neizing. of thread galling and absence visions,
4-30

K
and electrical connections External fine, how, should
location. for proper and fit examined test be
_Τ load
Δ• .U. Lubriatioa System 4.1.4.2.5
rbh gp τ ih α
, attn- procte bench testing gearbox the in Early in-
sh yc Pe oilet triu tin ε ν ms. oil distribution should veri- I jet be systems. Prop-or
win- Plexiglas) or (acrylic transparent of fled. Usc
Ade- helpful. is possible wharever covers and dows used
Design should be verified. wrapers, quate oil scavenging • internal baffles., oil re changes to incorporate
uncommon.ρ not venting are intrcompartmenta and to
in
per-
TeWs Fflkldcy Loading and Icreumetsi 4-1.4.2.6
it Immediately following lubrication system testing ro-
desirable to proceed with incremental tor- is generally
testing, with and inspection disassembly con- power step
between each step. Intervals of 25%, taking place
are and 125% of design power rating 50%, 75%, 100%,
siep is 2 to 5 hr at each Operation for recommended.
at markings wear-track definitive achieve to desirable 4-
of inspectic-ι Visual conditions. stabilized thermally Α
be mna,& shou!Id gcar meehes wear of al! pattern: the dc-
rate of to the note special paying each rtep after
( - of proper verify use order to fillout in pattern tooth oxi-
on gears black oxide shapes. The use of initial tooth
in step will assist each load rings between and bearing
inspection. visual accurate and
efficiency schedule to be convenient It may as-
incremert load with simultaneoisly measuraments
method but satisfactory involved rather One testing. seal
ex- requires the efficiency determination accurate of
the entire to insulating material of application ternal
gearbox of the housing and subsccuent measurement
oil the across rate flow and drop oil temperature Α
is cooler to the loss Power 45). (Ref. cooler the PLC
oxi-
η 49 PC-FGSC,,AT
42.4 hp (4-19) PLC
where All
gpm rate, flow oil F -
of lb/ial (α function oil. of weight specific Gs -
and aeration) temperature
function (α Btu/lb-*F of oil, heat specific C, Μ
aeration) and temperature of as-
out temperature differential between oil of ofT
and oil out of cooler, of transmission
F deg
of
insulation is effectivc in pro- With the assumption that the
ν, the power is only cooling convei preventing PLC