Ncp . 206-202
vertical soparation brutween litters of 18 in. is ro-
quired. The antire instailation should conform to the
streagth requirements of MIL-S-8698. MIl-STD-
1290 providas design guidanos for providing ade-
quate crashworthiness in the hitter installation. Litters
may be instalied either longitudinally or laterally.
Care mus: be takan to provide sdoquate crash-
worthiness and unloss the litter configuration Es capa-
bie of providing rosuaint, ths litter straps must bc
capabie of restraining the patient against the sur-
vivable crash loads. A lsteral oricntation of the litters
is indicatod as preferablo. Ease of litter loading and
in-flight accoasibility by modical attendants are im-
portant considerations. A litter lift device is generally
preferable to adjustable litter support strap as-
semblics if combat evacustion of lities patients is ro-
quirod. Fixed litter support strap asemblies should
be usod only wher: .oquired by the procuring activity.
The maximum dimensional roquirements fo:
aluminum pole litters are shown in Fig. 13-5. All
other pole litters usod by the services have the same
longth of pole, distance betwoen poles, and length of
canvas.
22
3.62
46
APPROXIMATE WEIGHT, 16 Ib
LITTER, FOLDING, RIGID POLE, ALUMINUM POLE,
FEDERAL SUPPLY CATALOG NO. 6530-783–7905
13-6

* х
Oxygon lines O. storage for portable oxygon units
— for the uce of all litter patients, modical personnel,
and other personnel — should be providod.
Electrical outlots should be provided in order to
operate elecirical medical equipment and provide
sockats for travoling louds.
oAp
desk, medical chost and oquipment storage space, in-
teroom equipmeut for two-way communication
between pilot and medic, and a loudspoaker system
for giving emcergoncy instructions to evacuoes also
shouid be provided.
13-2.3 SURVIVAL EQUIPMENT
13-2.3.1 Isdigh Escape and Survivad Eq
Provisions for inflight oscapa and survival depend
on the performance capability of the helicopter, the
nature of the mission, configuration of the beli-
copter, crow training, aud equipmeat providod. For
most helicopters, the autorotative characteristics of
the belicopter and the low altitude at which most mis-
sione are flown make inflight cocape undesirable if
not impossible. Therefore parachute provisions are
(ALL DIMENSIONS IN INCHES)
06
74
20.50
1.625 4.562
Figure 13-5. Rigid Pole Litter