262-90435μ
prossurs can be reduced to 100ν, pef over that por- Joad under constant precsure. Solid rubber
tion of the foor that can be uaod for cargo. Baggage motal wboeis do not offer this flexibility; aco
compartment floors should be de gned for α limit- ty, concentra tod proseure λ piied to the Boor by
load prossure of 100ν, paf . these wbeols must be asumed to
Cargo ti anapo.τ belicopte ing the capacity for portion to txe flight losd factor. Purfer
vehicular loads muat ba δ for the concen- flooring under solid-wheel loading should be фэ
Τ'hbese tarmined experimentally. with pertinent operationed
whoel Joads should be to be actime ax any limitations specifiod. In most contamporary het
point within the troadway areas sbovn in Fig. 11-5. copters, the use of shoring pianks is recomsended to
The dimensions showa on the drawing deecribe tlhe protect the floor from solid-wheel damuage.
suggortod minimum treadway arca. MEL-Α-8865 spocifios woar tost requirnnente for
The portions of tbe treadway that are usod only for newly designad flooring. Nontreedway areas albo
ground operations (loading and unlonding) shouid be should have the capability of oerrying limited con-
dosigned using α limit-lond factor of 1.0 appliod to centrated loads in excess of 300rap paf. Α lond
upon vhich the vehicte rosts in fligh: must be do- the ma ximum wboel load. The areas of tis troadway design of cargo aircranr. The extant of the 1000ν.. strength of 100ν pf typically σ wed in the
cignod to carry the maximum wboel load multiplied pef ares of applicstion is limited by weight and bar-
by the maximum flight linit loed factor Rr ance considerations and running-losd limits, which
Maximum wheel load sbould be oqual to 1/3 of the interact.
maximum anticipated vehicke wsight. This assumes α The running-load limit skould be established oy
laserally symmetrical vehicle with 2/3 of the wcight the greater of the following: twice the maximum
carriod by one axle. The maximum whcel load, multi- whecl load (ι.χ., the axlo Joad). or 300q ω ib/.inoar ft,
piiod by the apprcpriate limit-load factore, will be where ω is the width of the cargo floor ir. foet. The
applied to the treadway areas through pacumatic running-load limit is the maximum losd that cas be
tiros inflated to α maximum pressure of 100 pai. This appliod to any single foot of floor length.
iocal pressure of 100 pai can be assumod to remain Floor tiedown fittings should be available in suf-
constant with the applicution of belicopter flight o
limit-load factors, becaue the sction of the pneu- mum design cargo waight under the ultimate crash
matic tire under moderasely increased load is simply loads.
lo enlarge the whool contact area in proportion to the The cargo tiodown restraint factors must be do-
-CARGO COMPARTMENT FLOOR- AFT RAMP
FLOGR
Ω
BASIC CARGO UNIFORM STRENGTH 300nzIm psf
Λ 40 in. max FLOOR AND RAMP . CONCENTRATED LOAD 1000 2μ psf
– 88 in. min LOADING RAMP PRESSURE LOAD 100 psi
TREADWAY CONCENTRATED LOAD (ν. Lm /3)ξ (MAX VEHICLE WEIGHT)
CARGO FLOOR ( PRESSURE LOAD 100 cSI
TREADWAY CONCENTRATED LOAD (nzu μ /3)ξ (MAX VEHICLE WEIGHT)
Figure 11-3. Minimem Floor Streagth Requirements
11-8