5-4.1AMPLIFICATION AND NATURAL
FREQUENCIES
vibrations is field of rotor of thi Α summary
mathematical, this Although highly in Ref. 21, rained
reference both seeking for those is α valuable
and rotor loads information on specific and
discuss specific that follow paragraphs tion. The
ftequmicy and natural Information. plification
Information natura frequency Fig. 5-14 presents
wo-bladed, the method rotor, but teetaing for α τ
presentation and the design information are
discussion. Two to warrant α detailed enough
are made - one labeled collective mode and
other cyclic mode. These names stem from the
by the collective caused and motions of forces
collective rotor, two-baded the For controls. cyclic
airloads harmonic by even modes excited arm
harmonics. modes are excited by odd cyclic
abscissas the frequencies; are natural The ordinates
are rotor speeds; the vertical lines mark the
Mre harmonic and the radial lines speed range, rotor
and uncoupled natural&4- excitation lines. Coupled
with and cutves by are indicated quencies
Wi "- - sha8ρ1 moi1ε The symbhols. appnhc-be o~
to tile schematically. Fiapwise is nomnal shown
rotation. of plane !he in is inplane of rotation;
feathering; torsion and coupled means without blade
freedom. coupled ef these degrees include modes
harmonic excitatron plot contains even collective
cyclic odd harmonic plot contains lines, while the
lines,
The circ!zd numbers identify three collective
four cyclic modes. natural All frequencies increase
with rpm, but the flapwise frequencies increase
Ire~~~~tarde . - . . . η._ .... ...... . ..... ... £... -η -.
cyclic mode) because the centrifugal stiffness
larger percentuge of the total stiffness in the flapwise
direction. The collective modes show very little
modal coupling with twist and pitch, while the
modes show strong coupling,
de•ign These fan plots ar' the primary guide
rotor dynamics. Myklestad'σ development (Ref.
the of variation the compute to possible it made
oupled frequences with rpm. Finally, the method
Ref. 17 made it possible to compute the intermodal
oupling due to twist and ollective pitch.
the fine of because is necessary computation
required to avoid resonance throigh the eighth
monic of excitation, especially for compound
wide ranges composite rotors having aircraft
} operating rpm.
Transient resonances such as Points Α, Β, and
collecive the mode plot (Fig. 5-14) cannot
alvoided, \ but they cause no significant load or

uwd tion prolAwm.• Such π'oints are for test verifica-
tion of 0ε!'ι calculated natural flreqncies. Without Α.ι,'
confirm plats tlhe fan verification or adjust to such con-
first several of α new rotor, ground runs during the
aw . might be required to of tuning weights variations general
in correct rpm, resulting at operating trends tablish vibra-
-- of time. cost and loss ccnsiderable an-
K calculating rotor natural fro- ,ε main objective of V
such (nronncem) is to prevent coincidences quencies
or near the normal occurring in as Point Α from of
general operating rotor rtoo- speed band. Such steady-state
but often produce graphs nances are not catastrophic,
the strell high enough to reduce fatigue life signifi-
types cantly, as well as fuselage vibrations that may require Τ
, for comfortable flight envelope of the restriction and
operation.
factors cannot amplification resonant Generally, while
design pur- sufficient accuracy for be computed with
deter- have been amplification factors Once posx&.
mined for an existing rotor. fairly accurate predic- normal
of pera- for vAriations loads can made be tions of
α new these values to meters; however, extrapolating
factors damping risk. The involves considerable rotor witiout
arem prturaman rOiur-iuR1 ν hypi'Μ Ar VIompuiing uaH IN IIfLC
"'. loads of the predicted the value and plane empirical
low. is necessarily Un-
mechanisms has damping Progress in evaluating
dynamic and in both wait for improvements had to The
because an computing methods aerodynamic
may be due response at resonance observed level of
level of dam- or to α high low level of force either to α
concepts ping. Some'damping associated with the fan
and plots of Fig. 5-14 are:
I. All modes contain structural damping on the
much order of 0.50-1.00% of critl, which is relatively in-
of. 0.5-100 of•α• cri,,ti.ι-iI. wh~tc ν_*κ.tk; significant.
α is shown the 2. Flapwise modes such " the ones in
collective mode plot ame strongly damped aerody-
inter- namically, while inplane modes not. are
cyclic 3. Modes with strong intermodal coupling, such as
those shown in θ, cyclic mode plot, have fme-
for qucncies that vary significantly with blade pitch; •
16) thus, they benefit from an effective damping me-
cyclic The detuning. cyclic as to referred hhanism un-
of variation in pitch limits the resonance to α few
degrees of azimuth, preventing steady-state resonant -'
Accurate~ amplification. This damping source is at least as
damping. aerodynamic flapwise as the significant tuning
har-
and
RESONANCE 54.3 GROUND of
The helicopter be free of mechanical insta- shaft
C in bility at all rotor speeds and opernting conditions
be (takeoff, flight, landing, taxi) regardless ann of the
vibra- type of landing gear; under the entire range of gross