j)~
are be not discussed. These systems sAll designed
as as are to be at leat as reliable the rotorcraft
mary flight controls.
6.33.3 F'ah-sife Prlmdples
Fail-safe desian, redundancy, and self monitoring
priniples also are discussed in par. 6-4.3. AMCP
706-201.
6-3.3.4 Damage, Battle Vulner.41llty
shal Steps be taken to reduce vulnerability SAS
cases where loss of stability augmentation would all
abort α mission Duplication or triplicintion of
tuators and hydraulic systems α valid is approach.
actuators SAS should designed so be that it is
ble to lock tthem in α centered position in the event
loss of hydraulic pressure. Duplication or
cation of hydraulic lines does not reduce vulnere
bility unless provision is made for automaticall)
ting off the oil supply to sevcred lines. Levers,
cranks, and pushrods can made be large in size and
lig'st-gage, low-stressed material in order to ir"-uce
fire. Critical components arms tn- vuIneainhlitv -Imall j) Λ not readily duplicated should grouped be and
tected with armor (see par. 14-3).
6.3.4 COST'
6-3.4.1 Developrmat Coam
The cost of developing α new generally SAS is
proportion to the ad vance in the state-oif-the-art rep-
moented the dev~lopment by program. conven- Α
SAS tonal for conventional airframe α can be
tained from off-the-she'φ components, whereas α
concept for α rotor-located SAS, or for sensors based
upor new teclinoiogy, may require α large
penditure in order to bring it to production status.
The new cont&pt must promise α sufficý-nt increas:
cost-effectiverness in future production to
pensate for the U.gh cost of development.
6-3.4.2 Puodsacton Cost
SAS production cost can be reduced by adhering
thc following:
1. Simplicity design χ-φ
2. Use of integrated and printed circ.uits
3. CommonalitY' ot circuit mod-Ales
Extensive 4. use of value engineering principles,
Production cost increases may be expected with
increase in:
1. Number of system components
2. Quality or precision of components
3. Number of nonitandard parts
\ 4. Number of parts that can be assembled
\corrft-tly

WrC 706-202
of so Σ. Number and interdependency adjustments to
pri- be made in final assembly
6. Number of parts that can be damaged easily in
assembly
Dogrce 7. of cicanliness required during assembly
Unrealistic 8. requirements, or ovcrtzmphasis on
snua icpiesc ν
α. Wcght ri~duction
Compactness β.
χ. Functional complexity
Reliability in δ.
Maintainability ε.
ac- φ, Structural integrity.
possi- 6-3.4.3 Msllaterancc Cvt
of Α simple, mechanaical SAS composed of infinite-
tripli- life parts (as in the Bell σ".bilizer bar) requires main-
tenance only in the form of regular inspection and
cut- lubrication. In the event of battle damage or other
bell failurc, repairs can be performed by α qualified
of mechanic. An electrohydraulic SAS, on the other
hand, may require the sei vices of an instrument
electronic technician, and snecialist- α qualified an
pro- helico.pter mochanic. Thus, the ucif-temt cireutit
should be devised so as !α indicate exactly which sec-
of plug-in replacement and Removal defective. tion is
modules represent field mainteniance at lowest cost.
Added to this cost, however, is the cost of main-
in taillilg adequate spares.
6-3.5 TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
ob- For the dcvcelopmeni of Π conventional (ε~lcctro-
new λ'yd..aulic) SAS, the plan outlinrd in MIL-C-1γ244
should be followed. In addition, the airframe and
ex- rotor dynamic and aerodynamic propcriics cvcnwlu-
shoull ly he inclucied in the initial system analysis
in (MlL-C-48244) in order to show thec possible exis-
rcom- tenc of α~rame cross-coupling and the need forr
anticross-coupling in the SAS, as well as to show the
overall behavici of the SAS/airframc coml~ina' ion.
Six degrees of freedom of the airframe, and quasi-
to ncrnial modes of the roior (inplane as well as flap-
ping motion o,' the bltdes), should be used. The
resulting equations art used later in the simulation
studies required MIL-C-18244. by The simulaticn
not only will 41low the pilot to evalute the system, but
also will permit demonstration of the scverul types of
anl failure of the SAS, and will indicate time delays per-
miscible ;)eibre starting corrective action.
In the development of unconventional SAS'σ, ea-
pecisily those involving modified rotor dynamics,
σ,-vwal changes from the procedure in MIL-C-18244
in- ar mommended Unconventional systems require
more inisial system synthesis, or concept selection,
6-13