%Α
'(Α)
Figure 7-13.
grouped functionally in panels similar to relay
ι4entified All components must be located and
attached to the panel. means of α decal permanently
Power contactors must be installed so that the
tactor case or box is isolated from the airframe
ture.
"All have junction boxes and panels should
grounds χ,-ι from ui emanaung χ.tassis and
-
the electrical connectors,
7-73 ELECTRICAL WIRE BUNDLES
harnesses of wire two types are there Basically,
allowable:
wires where individual bundles, Open-wire 1.
airframe in bundles and routed through the tied
an abrasion- 2. High-density bundles, where
ic braided, extruded, etc., over resistarm szovering
entire bundle.
the particular suited for best wire the case either In
when open-wire application must be used; and,
bundles are used, the wires have markings shall
cordance with MIL-Ω-5088 and the bundles
be tied at 3- to 8-in. intervals. Lacing shall
of the satible with the operating environment
copter,
are used, the bundles Where high density bunweas
at 8-in. intervals with α thin layer must be taped
Teflon tape. An outer abrasion-resistant
over the wire must be braided or extruded
is not acceptable as an abrasion-res•atant Tape
ends covering except on repair or at the areas
must never be used primary as bundle. Tape
sulation. Repairs to high-density bundles should
by routing α wire external to the abrasion- made
resistant covering. The external wire must
abrasion resistant covering. Splices are to
as ith an ab.asion-resistant material, such

45 dog -
(Β)
Permihsbl CIamP Ddumsmiiea
panels, tubing, but shoule .ot be covered the braid by or cx-
by truded outer jacket of the bundle.
should be an of The primary wirv bundle clamps
environmentally compatible type. Nylon clamps are con-
low-vibration, easily struc- permissible in low-tempsature,
for accessible . Plastic clamps are not to br use arm
in arse where damp failure α power wire bundle support
μ ω ,tsa ,har ^ Air κ, ., .... eho.φ 91 ci 6 uOf Ξ;ι.
to interfere with controls. The preferred orien- or
of all wire bundle clamps is with the bell (loop) tation
down. The bell should not be turned upward if the
wire bundle weight threat 'ns to deform the damp.
in be deformed may 21919 type of the MS Clamps
by flatten- Installation problems meet special ordwr to
no 1kw to α height Fig. 7-13, dlamp bell, as in the are ing
bell height. The mounting than 3/4 of the original
but not more than 45 shown δ4, as ears may be bent,
the in Fig. 7-13.
! . NAE -7. • zaI'q; ZME V
27212 or MIL-Τ- Terminal strips should MS bN
strips be in ac- 81714 with MS 18029 covers. Torminal shall
with the mounting be installed as shown in Fig. 7-14, shall
com- holes isolated, for example, by filling with MIL-Α-
to prevent short circuits to heli- 46146 Type sealant I
may be used in ground. MS 25227 insulating strips
however, an additional nut must be lieu of potting;
between the insulating strip and the bottom of installed
is no resilient material in corn- covering terminal to that there
the terminals. bundle. pression with
shall used on one maximum of four terminals Α be
be uscd between studs of α atud. MS boa bars may '5266
ex- interconnect terminals. When terminals are in- to
be posed to the weather such as in wheel wells ter- - -
shall phenolic resin minals and studs brushed with be
have an varnish.
to α terminal at each be coverd Thf wire bundle be tied *Wl
identi- least one wire Teflon breakout. Ther at be sell
7-25