~7W2.V2 r 'U
Test filtration should not exceed that of the
ponent in actual use.
Design Fittings 9-2.9.6
Hydraulic fittings, such as AN g33 universal
can port, valve in a installed when types- head
fluid restricted or interference valve in internal
selection fitting and design port Component
occur. cannot interference that such
incorporated if suppressors, - and fittings Pump
Sshall values allowable maxinmum to torqued be
order to prevent loosening and subsequent
fluid. Use of an acceptable locking device is
for any large fitting in high-pressure application.
The use of pipe plugs for external sealing of
passages can lead to internal stresses in
housings, resulting in cracks. The Lee plug
less stress concentration and should be considered.
9-2.9.7 Cage apd Indicator Design
d Design It ageneraly gndit tlet
It generally is good design to include fuses as
as snubbers at the upstream ends of the lines
to gages and indicators. An alternative is to install
the system in into fittings pressure sensors
line. Helimcil an annendant of in stead
instead of 5ourdon are recommendod elements
. types.
. Gages with Bourdon tube or rack and pinion
gearing shall be avoided for use as pressure gcators. The transmitter should be conneted
system with flexible hose or with a tube having
ficient bend to absorb vibrations,
SGage, cases incorporate a vent hole to shall
buildup of case pressure if the sensing element
The vent hclt should be covered with tape to
corrosion.
9-2.9.8 Hose Design
such devices of testi'g and design Realistic
hose side must take brake control valves
4,.count.
cross-con- prevent routing or sizing Hose shall
nection at actuators. However, deviations from
mal hydraulic practices, such as use of return
that arc smaller than pressure hoses, be shall
because such deviations can have an adverse
,i- 9-2.9.9 Pump Desiga
Insuring compatibility of the pump with the
requires determination of the effects of
pressure, high case drain (or bypass) back
and the interaction of the two on the internal
Sof the pump. Back pressuie also can cause
9-30
I'

com- cooling flow, leading to shortened pump life. Com-
patibility determination includes analysis of the
generation properties of contamination nature of the
keep back be used to must sufficient filters the pump;
hulk- pressure low within a reasonable cleaning schedule
the pump. for supply fluid a clean maintaining while result
non- large, shall consider system design Two-pump flow.
line Should pump. each of the drain in filters bypass be shall
case pump low insure to be used filters bypiss-type
a second, through routed shall be flow the pressures,
filter. return larger in
loss of Pulsations resulting from pump ripple, which may
advisable be intensified by system resonance, can be deter-
mined by oscilliscope scanning of the pressure
drilled through the range of operation. Peak pulsations shall
component be kept below +150 psi (300 psi total). Pressure
produces pickups must be in the line (not on appendages), and
be located at the pump and, at least, at the first shall
downstream component. The optimum design fur-
nishes some elasticity to the system at the pump out-
port. Short, dead-ended lines near the pump
well require particularly close scrutiny, and should be
leading avoided.
the
pressuriza- result if reservoir will Pump cavitation in- line
the suc- fluid in the to accelerate is not sufficient tion sennine -
with pump dis- compatible a flow rate tion line to tube
placement. This condition is likely to be a more cri- "-
tical design condition than is the steady-state flow re-
indi- quirebnent. Qualification testing of pumps, particu- to the larly those for use in power-control systems, should
suf- include suction and clemznd requirements based
upon the condition of the application.
preven" Connecting two or more pump systems from a
leaks. common routing can result in priming problems, with
prevent a momentary interruption of inlet flow resulting if
reservoir pressurization is low.
the normai sysiem pump is pumping air and ii
cavitating a bootstrap reservoir, the auxiliaiy pump
supply low bootstrap by the adversely can be affected as
A check-off accumu- not prime. and may loads into pressure,
bootstrap order to maintain be required in lator may
pressure. of normal system with losh pressure
nor- Centrifugal pump operation with an outlet flow
hoses blockage can result in overheat, thus causing seal or
avoided case (structural) failures. Therefore. bypass flow for
effect. cooling be provided. shall
Pump testing shall include realistic case drain
system chara.-teristics. The internal leakage of a hy-
system dreulic pump is necessa.-y for lubrication and cooling
low inlet of the pump mechanisms. However, the subsystems
pressure, into which the flow is discharged vary among heli-
balance copter designs. The designer spocify the case shall
reduced drain system characteristics to insure adequate