AMCP 706-202
the craah event. These curves are darivod by inte-
gration of tbe rospoctive sxcleration curves in Fig.
11-7(Α). Bocause it is under α lcuser acceloration, the
cargo must move slightiy fartber than the fusclage
during the pariod of the accaleration puisc. This ad-
ditional distroce is the distance through 'vhich the
lond-limiter nuust defloct, and is determinod by into-
grating the two velocity-time curves (cargo and air-
frame) to find the distance cach-travels during the
avont, and then finding the difference betwoen the
distances. Eq. 11-1 can be usod by the designer to de-
termine load-limiter stroke requirod, assuming α tri-
angular acceleration input pulse:
- (++ν (1-1) rok=H -2+ξ+2-1) ν (1)
whcre
H = pulse peak acceleration, number of γ'σ, di-
mensionless
= acceleration due to gravity, 32.2 φ/sec²
κ - acccleration ratio α,/ H, dimensionless
aΛ - limit cargo acceleration, number of γ'σ, di-
mensioniess
ь - time to reach peak duration, sec
20
CLASS Α CARGO
15
LONGITUDINAL ACCELERATION 10
5 LOWER (BASE) CURVE
-
0 5 10
11-10

This equation is derived from Ref. 5.
The load-limiting cargo restraiat concept has beon
developed to the prototypo stage. Cost and waight
permitting. it is rocommended that consideration be
given to incorporating such devioes into the baaic
dosign of new belicopters. Such loed-limiting re-
straint fittings would provide α maxinum degres of
crashworthinen. Details of load-limiter design and
application are availeble in Raf. 6.
Wben specifying load-limitars, the craigrer must
make & trado-off betwoen rated strengtn and load-
limiter stroke. Fig. 11-8 sbows the various ways of
achieving adequate rostraint of Class Α cargo in α
90θ-percentile crash, using load-limiters having
different encrgy «bsorption characteristice.
It can be soon by referring lo the sample curves that
an additional resiriction on the performance of tbe
load-limiter is that the load-deflocticn curve must
avoid the shadod area below the basc curvc. This base
curve indicates the load below which the losd-limiter
must act as α rigid link in the tiodown chain. This
load should define the ratod yicld strongth of the
limiter. An optimum load-limiter. from the stand-
point of weight and number requirod, would be one
Ξ CONTROLLEO DEALECTION
AIRCRAFT FLOOR
LECTION)
LEGEND FOR SAMPLE CURVES:
FAILURE POINT
ACCEPTABLE PERFORMA ICE
UNACCEPTABLE PERFCRMANCE
15 20 25 30
CONTROLLED DEFLECTION Ξ. in.
Figure 11-8. Clans Α Cargo Forward Load-deflectioe Envelope