;< U. ι.• . • . -. .. . .. .;' ,, , • .• , I
~κ"
...-.-_- - ____.-.
"LAGGING
"-. (FLAPPING
STRAP RADIUS BFNDING • ".••• Σ.VOE BEND ~~~~LIMITS
FEATHERING ,(
System Figure 5-10. OH-6Α Hingelem Rotor
"5-3.6.2 axis. lstabllity initially is at distance ρ sinpo from the feathering Pitch-flap
axis, the feathering about noseup rotates blade the As of sort anme the to subject are blades Rotor
are it upon acting force lift the and blade section the example, For wings. fixed as are instabilities dynamic
noscdown α , producing sini Or backward displaced bending-or- classical to the susceptible are they 0
those with moment. This moment, together pitchin$ or verti- For hover Ref. 11. in sional discussed flutter
aerodynamic the inplane in variations by caused rotating the between difference major the cal flight,
mo- through the centuifugal force acting and the spanwise force is the velocity variation and the fixed wing
the between in coupling ρ results sin~, ment arm para- principal The due to rotation. bWede along the
flan and; con seuently; of freedom and dearees nitch inflpnpring thie mnjie euetpms hnth arm. θ@ in mtPre
stability characteristics. The net pitching airfoil sec. affects the chordwise distapce between the CG of the
the blade axis changes center, about the feathering moment and the torsional the aerodynamic tion and
by an amount pitch angle, hence the angle of attack, stiffnes,
system to the control proportional that is inversely flapwisc deflections, either addition to to.sional In
motion, the χý for pitch-flap :4: Completing stiffness. of the blade deflections displacements or chordwise
as blade section lift varies unstable, thv be which may α pitch-flap in- in such α way that may interact also
lift vari- The change. tngle-of-attack of the α result with flapping of α blade The case stability can occur.
produces in turn, which, flapping, blade causes ation hinge (flapping axis the feathering above deflections
bending inplane Steady Coriolis forces. Fig. additional 5- in is illustrEted pitch bearing) of the outboard
introduce pitch also can sweep or bladt deflection to its steady- respect flaps with the As blade 12 (Α).
moments as α result of lift variations. state position, the resulting Coriolis force produce4 α
there is pitching moment about the feathering axis. If
Instability 5-3.6.3 Flaplag pitching this system, control the pitch in flexibility
of as α result flap-lag instabilitizs describes Ref. 12 to ;hang;. the blade caue pitch of the moment
this from conclusion The deflections. blade finite is α also system control of the stiffness Therefore,
hinges no laS have that rotors that lifting werk is stability. in pitch-flap factor significant
to limit- subject be conditions, iniy, certain under blade section the same (Β), Fig. 5.12 in shown As
5-14