таеы.
DRAUN SHELLS TUBING
α = 0.125 δ
(Α) FLANGES
R = 3 TO Σ TIMES
MININUM BEND RADIUS
FOR THE METAL
(Β) UALING
Pewe 17-1. § Radll Practice-
Redl
17-3.2 MACHINING OPERATIONS
The mschinas referred to in this discuasion are cut-
ting tocl types. Qther typos of machines, which are
nod to α lecour de electrical discharce,
slecirochamical, chemical, uitrasonic, abraaive jot,
and plaema arc. All can be programmed from
o
only nominal supervision is roquirad. Tais resuits in
substantial cost reductions fos quantity and quality
wok.
Among tibe operations performed wish cutting tool
machines are turning trepanning. planing, zhaping.
broaching, crilling and tibread milling, counter-
sinking. countorboring. and die thrauding. Α tool
that cuts with one point or aage is roicrrod to ns α
siaglo-point tool. Drils, reasers, and miling cutters
hawe more than oue cutting sdge.
Duriag mnachining operations, meta! removai takes
place tkrough thrpe diutinct typas of cutting action,
depeading upou the type of matorial being cut.
Mediunn-hard mnateriala, with α low coefficient of
friction, : :pecate α contiavous chip that tends to foul
the work. isce, while soft ausdl ductile materiais with α
bigh coafficiont of friction give α continuous chip
with α built-up edge. This action contributes to,short
toel life, roquiring optimum tool goometry. proper
austtiag speed, aod proper cutting fluid to remova
beut sad roducs friction. Brittie materials are
removed by α combination of shear aed fracture,

osusing chips to come off in regmants. This makes the
attainmont of α foe finish difficult.
Important factors in the ovorall cost of machining
are the tcol material, the tool goounetry, and tibe cut-
ting fuid employed. Α socondary factor it the moa-
chinability of the metal baing marhinac. Methods of
moasu:ring the machinability of α given material are
based upon cutting ratio, abear angic, horsepower,
surface finiah, tool temperature, and tool life. Α
major parameter is horsepower. Table 17-2 lists the
rolative values of horsepower roquirod for turning.
drilling. and milling representative metaks. Horse-
power, surface finish, and tool life may be used as α
measure of machinability by compa. ing the results
obtained for cach with the results obtained u :der the
same conditions with SAE Β1112 stoel, ratod 100%
machinable.
The tkree major ms?bine shop operations are turn-
ing. milling. and drilling. All other operations are
dorived from thas throc. In turaing oporations, the
work pioce is turnei against α cutting tool. In milling
operations, the work pioce romains at α fixod height
and ia moved back and forth under an arbor or spin-
dle holding thc multibladed cutting tool. The tool ro-
tates on an axis paraiicl to the piane of the wori
tablo, and fooc to the work pioce is made by vertical
adjustment of the tool. Drilliag operations aro con-
ductod by moans of σ drill τ-sing turnod into the work
pioce.
17-3.3 ELEMENTS OF MACHINING DESIGN
The smoothnees of the surface producod by ma-
chine-cutting or mota-finishing operations is ex-
preneed in RMS microinches. Msasurement stand-
ards for these surface textures are given by ANSI
Β46.!-19es. Representative values for several cutting
operations are given in Table 17-3.
The tolerances and limits applied to-α dimension
on the drawing of α part will detormir.ε the kind of
machining procaes that should be usod. Thus. for α
dimonsion roquiring * tolerance of 0.002 in.. it is ap-
propriste to use α grinder rather than α lathe or
milliag machine since the time spent trying to hold
this tolerance on α lathe would prove expensive. On
the other hand, α part shat carsies α tolarancc of 0.015
in. probably is more appropriately machinod on α
lathe or milling machine rather than procision
ground.
The establisbed ciassns of tolerance include run-
ning or slicing clearance (RC). location clearance
(LC). location uraasition (LT). location interference
(LN), and forco or shrink (FN). In RC, one part
moves inside the other. 1C, LT, and LN are used
mainiy for tha snombly of sationary parts. FN
ν ν
17-5