Orientation of the fibers along the length of the
gives α composite construction that is very strong
is axial tension and light in ω'eight. One successful
configuration is much like the solid aluminum extru-
beams be or variants thereof. "I" sion. Others may
The large number oi configurations possible include
shear weba molded α multicell section with complete
integrally inside an airfoil-shaped shell,
attractions of molded plastic One of the greatest
the ability to achieve any desired degree of taper
virtually any desired shape. Another is the ability
wrap each fiber, or filament, around τ'.ε principal
tachment member at the root end so that there are
discontinuities in the load-carrying material.
another is the relatively wide selection of stiffness/
strength/weight ratios that arc available through
choice of fibi-ρ-reinforcing material and the orienta-
tion of the fibers.
Α disadvantage of molded reinforced plastic is
difficulty of repeajing with precision the properties
(density, strength, stiffness) from one unit to another.
This problem is being overcome, through improve-
imnts in the molding process.
5.4U.2 Sscfie Aft
The aft section, or fairing. of α rotor blade is the
70-80% of the airfoil. It consists of upper and
skins, some type of contour-stabilizing internal
member (usually α structural trailing edge strip), and
α means of attachment to the spar. This section
make α significant contribution to the beam stiffnesG
and strengah of the blade, or, in some cases, it
serve only as α fairing and to transmit the airloads
the spar. There are many different typ'σ and
tions. The rtist common are described in succeeding
SP~agtisphs,
5-6.2.1 Coatimous Skim
Continuous skins of sheet metal or fiber-rein-
forces plastic may extend from the root of the blade
to the tip. Regardless of the internal members,
tinuous skins normally carry α significant amount
lar, the centrifugal loading and α share of thc -
contribu- wise bending anc, torsional stiffness. These
tions can be controlled closely in the case of plastic
skins by the sclection of the fiber orientation. In
way, α blade can be designed to be torsionally
and yet veiy stiff in the flapwise or cbordwise
tion, or vice versa.
SThe internal members that tie the upper and
skins together and maintain the blade contour
""'_/ or channels, be metallic or nonmetallic beams "'I"
honeycomb core, foam core, or α series of individual
ribs. Blades with α chord of less than 8.0 in. or

Μ 706-202
spar with unusually heavy skins may not require any inter-
nal in members in the aft section. Very large blades may
constructed with individual sandwich skins both be
top and bottom, in which case no further reinforce-
ment or stabilization may be necessary.
Spanwise beams "I" or channels in the aft section
significantly to blade chordwise generally contribute
more often and torsional stiffness and thus are found
is in the blaces of semirigid rotor systems. Channels are
and adaptable as spanwise members in tapered blades
thay to since can be stretch- formed to the required
If at- shape. they are bruke- or roll-formed in α constant
no shape, they can be placed in α skewed position within
Still the aft section so that they follow α spanwise line of
constant blade thickness. However, the use of such
the internal members often has the disadvantage of Com-
plicated internal too'ing required for proper
positioning, and to supply adequate pressure during
tht adhesive bonding of the assembly.
Honeycomb core as α filler between the top and
bottom skins of the aft section is extremely effective
in maintaining α stable airfoil contour. Although
aluminum alloy honeycomb core is the most com-
mon. there is α growing tendency toward the use of
nonmetallic honc)cuwb. Tht latter has the advan-
tages aft of being less susceptible to corrosion, relatively
lower resistant to impact, and - where nonmetallic skins
also are employed less suuxptible to lightning -
is strikes. Whenever honeycomb used, careful atten-
may tion must be given to sealing α blade completely
against tiie entry of moisture, because any water that
may enters the blade has α tendency to migrate and I
to become entrapped, leading to corrosion and blade
varia- unbalance.
K4'-ρ,
Fosm core also has been used successfully in blade
reguired in this oft liahtweight fnramg =ttc•tni Thp 4
application are somewhat more susceptible to le- .'
lamination between skin and core than arc the honey-
combs, and to failures occurring within the foam
itself. Generally, foam cores are pre-cured before
con- -blade assembly. Foaming in place is !α be dis-
of couraged since it is difficult to obtain uniform quality
chord- and density.
Individual ribs commonly were used with wooden
rotor blades, but seldom are employed with metal or
sections. this reinforced plastic blades with continuous aft
soft In the latter case, the tooling for installation of the
direc- ribs becomes quite :omplex, and contour stability is
difficuilt to maintain within the weight and balance
limitations. lower
may
54.2.2.2 Segnumted Skims
Blades used in fully articulated rotor systems often
blades are constructed with segmented aft sections,
5-43