AMCP 706-202
filler metals, there is α best joint cloarance. Valucs
below the minimum clearance are weak because the
alloy doas not flow into the joint. Clearances beyond
the maximum also reault in joints with lower
streuigth. The normal range of clearanco is 0.002 to
0.010 in.
Brazing materials and processes, with approved
specifications, are listod in MIL.-Β-7883.
17-4.2.3 Solderiag
Tho principles and tochniques for soldering are
much the same as for brazing. except that soldering
alloys are primarily tin-lcad basc alloys that melt
beiow 800-F. Soldering is restrictod primarily to
joining shoot-metal surfaces and wiring for cloctrical
connoctions. Copper and stoel surfaces, and surfaces
coated with copper, tin, zinc, or other compatible
materials, may be soldered. Aluminum and siainless
scel are cxamplcs of metals which are difficult to
selder. Clcanliness and proper selection of the solder
and the flux in relation to the surfaces to be joined are
of utmost importance. No porosity can be tolerated
in soldered joints. Electrical continuity and complete
scaling against fluids are normal requirements.
174.3 MECHANICAL FASTENING
Bocausc of thc conveniencc of mechanical
fastening, parts that need never be dissssembler often
are joined mechanically, with resultant poor istri-
bution of stresses and increased weight. Such parts
brazing. or adhasive bonding
There also is the queetion of which of the hundreds
of types of mechanical fasteners to usc. The result
often is overdasign. with pocr strragth balance
betwoen the fasteners and the parts joinod. More-
over, there is little in the literature to guide the dc-
signer in making broad choices in mechanical
fasiening. However, there are more than 20 Military
Spxafications on specifie fasteners, and Mil-F.
:9700 ard MS-17855 contain general specifications
and sandards for screw threaded fasteners. Follow-
ing is α discussion of various methods of rnechanical
fastening.
17-4.3.1 Rlvets
Fos sll aircraft applicstions, particularly where dis-
primer. Often an adhesive is piscod beiween the parts
being riveted in order to dampen vivrations and to
minimize failure due to fatigue.
Important items of rivet joint desigr are pitch, the
spacing between rivet centers; back or iransverse
pitch, the specing betweon centerlines of rowe of
17-10

rivets; diagonal pitch, the spacing botwoon the nonrest
rivet centers of adjacent rows: and margin, the
spacing between the odge of α part and the contarline
of the nearost row of rivets.
For structural and machine member joints, the
pitch should be such that the tensile strongth of the
plate in the distance betwoen rivets in the outer row is
oqual to the shear strength of the repesting sections
of rivots. The rivot diamater δ is seoctod so shat δ =
1.1Τ to δ = 1.4φ wbare I is the thicknow of the
plato. Good danign practico calik for placing tke
conter of the first row of rivets α minimum of one and
ono-hnlf rivet diamatess away from the edge of the
piste. For multiple rows, the transvarce pitch is 1.75 δ
(sos Fig. 17-7). It is also roquirod that:
1. Bearing stross of rivei and plate be uniformty
distributod over the projoctod area of thc rivct
2. Tensile strous be uniform in the mstal betwoen
rivets
3. Shearing stress be uniform scrons the rivet
4. Accumulation of stresses on rivets be mini-
mizod.
Rivet holes usually are made everal thousandths
of an inch larger than the nominsi diameter of the
rivei. On comprosion, the rivat expands to fill the
hole while also forming the driven bead. Yunching
operations may cause dsgradaton in the strength of
the plate surrounding the hole. An anncaling opera-
tion may be desirabie to restore strength in thcse
areas. Structural and machine mamber rivets usually
are made of wrought iron er soft steei; but copper,
aluminum alloy. Moncl, and Inoned rivets may be
1.75δ 1.75α
1.54
Ξ=FITCH DISTANCE
Pigere 17-7. Kivet Spacag