for ail or part of the ipan of tha biade. A more cona-
moa type is a relatively ahort tab locsted in tse vi-
cinity of 75% spaa. For blade tracking. tri tabe are
adjusted by bending them upward or duwnw.srd as
neconeary to equalize the pitohing meoment charac-
toriatics of the indiv.duni Slades.
5-4.2.6 Tuaine Welghts
Many forms of tuning weights are used internally
at various locstions along the span of the blade. Tbey
are refarred to as "antinode" wcights because they
are placod at the point of maximuin deflection ampli-
tude of the biadc ss it vibrates in various harmonic
modos. The purpoee is to change the natural fre-
quency of the ülade to avoid rosonance with any
posible forcing froqucncics, particularly rotational
speed. The weighia may be bonded, riveted, or boltod
to intarnal structur J members of the bladc, or may
be suspendod at the end of a cabic, strap, or rod that
is retained at tbs root end. The laiter method of
retention precludes high local stresses in the basic
blade structure due eitber t. holos, or to contrifugal
force bocausc of the concentrated mass. It also pre-
cludes high stresscs in the weight itsolf from inducad
bending, and permits the weight to bc made of high-
density, nonstructural metal.
5-6.2.7 Design Reguiremsats
Regardioss of the method of construction of a
rotor biade, the detail design and the selection and
distribution of material must satisfy a number of in-
depondent and intarrelated requirements. The blade
geometry baving boen established, as discussed in
par. 5-6.1, additional major considerations are
strengtb, vibration, weight, mass moment of inertis,
scrviccability, and cost.
As a rulc, a rotor bladc that is designed to have a
reasonablc life under the applicablc fatigue loading
conditions will be structurally adequate for any static
conditions. Thereiore, major eunphasis must be
placod on deeign feature that roduce the alternating
stressss and make the structure as insensitive as possi-
bic to thosc stiessca. Alternating stresscs are induced
by response of the blader to the periodic airloads,
which, in turn, are afiected by the blade motion. Thc
blade responsc is dependent aimost entirely upon the
mass and stiffaess distributions. It is excremely im-
portant that those distributions be such as to avcid
any bending or t prsional natural frequencics that are
near resonance s. th any forcing functions (sce par. 5-
4.2).
The blade vibration frequencics may be broken
Jown into flapwise, chordwise, -and torsional fre-
quoncics; these may coupie together unfavorably to

cause bigh amplifia of motion and strus. To
avoid mucds to bs
abie to changs tihe
Similariy. it ie deiral
wiae mcas distvibution
the chordwies CG. For exampla. a aparwice anti-
node weight, if inproporty located in the blado, mey
corroct a flapping netural froquoncy, but may change
a torsional frequency so as to cause it to pouple
strongiy with a chordwise bending frequency. Such
coupling ofton results in high-froquency stress ampli-
fications that can seriously limit the lifo of the rotor
blade; but if the vibrations are not transmittod to ths
sircraft, the condition may not be apparent to the
occupants.
This control of natural frequoncies is equally is t-
porta.t in avoiding excossivo vibration of the aircraft
and high loads in the conirol system. Wbether or not
the rotor blade vibrations will be transmitted to the
fixed system is dependent upon the mode of vibra-
tion relative to the nun ber of blades in the rotor.
Thus, it is necessary to consider the entire systom
when designing a rotor blade for opuimum natural
frequency.
In spite of all efforts to avoid amplifications of
bending moments by control of natural frequencics,
alternating streases always will exist. It is of prime im-
portance, therefore, that the detail design maximize
the tolerance of a rotor blade io thesc stresses.
Materials sclected, whether metallic or nonmetallic,
must be capable of providing high fatigue strength.
To this end, any form of stress raiser — e.g., notch,
hole, o: sudden change of soction — must be avoided
in areas of even relatively low alternating stress.
Techniques have becn developed that now make
welding * viabie meihod for fabricaiion of rotor
blades. However, care must be exercisod in the place-
ment of the weld, and adoquate quality control over
the process must be sssurod. Holes in areas of high
streos also can be avoide. through the use of achesive
bonding. When the joints are designed with care,
stress concentrations virtually can be eliminated.
tion of a crack frory one structural member to
another. In all of the blade configuretions discussed
in the carlicr parts of this paragreph, adhesive bon-
ding generally is the principal method of joining.
5-6.2.8 Toeling end Qusiliy Coutrol Roquiremeats
Two principal categorics of tooiing for the con-
struction of rotor blades are the tools for fabricating
the main vomponerts and thosc for assembling the
biade. In the case of moldod fiber-reinforcod-plastic
blades, thcse may bo combinod, and the spar, skins,
5-45
. :