I
free to flap, the blade tip will droop unoer the
weight. Flap restrainers can be ground
equipment if blade folding is accomplished
casionally.
Two common types of centrifugal droop
mechanisms reattainer are ovcenter linka3es
terposer blocks. Both of thes use weights to
the mechanism as the rotor speed increases,
springs to re-engage during shutdown,
Another droop restrainer mechanism is α
(gimbaled) ring below the hub, with projections
the flapping portion of each blade. Cyclic
individual blades ring displaces the to permit
without restraint, while the ring supports
blades against collective droo,.
"5.3 CONTROL SYSTEM CONSIDERATIONS
In the selection and design of the blade
system, consideration must be given to tk.ε
teristics of those elements which aff•ct the
the rotor control system. Displacement of
about the pitch axis is opposed by α friction 9
essentially constant value if angular contact
nearinns Aorc \ are usewi to react centrriuaai tkut
blade. On the other hand, both elastomeric
anJ flexing elements (tensit ν-torsion straps and
assemblies) tie-bar have the characteristics
sional springs. When the elements of this
used to react the blade centrifugal forc, the
angular opposing motion of the blade is
tional to the displacement.
In addition to torque res isting motion about
"pitch axis that originate in the blade retention
there also are dspend torques that upon the
characteristics of the blades. The first of these,
variously as the propeller moment and
fugal feathering moment, α is torque that
displacement of the chordwise principal axis
cross the section of blade out of the plane of
torque is directly proportional to the This
between the moments of inertia with respect
principal axes section of the cross and also
directly with ill. The presence of the torque
been referred to as tffoct". tennis racket "the
rotors and for main rotors of small helicopters for
which speed the rotational is high, it may be desirable
to nullify this torque by equalizing the moments
inertia. This may be accomplished by the addition
appropriate balance weights at the root of the
The second torque that depends on the character- -
istics of the blade is the conventional inertia
proportional to the polar moment of inertia
respect to the pitch axis. This inertial torque
"with, but is opposite in direction to,
ρ',3.35

ι rI ¼ :I τ, ..... . I 7-0
AMCP 106-aV02
blade (feathering) acceleration. if balance weights arc used
support to reduce or nullify the centrifugal centering moment,
only oc- the increased polar moment of inertia will result in
higher loads in the control system to obtain α given
and flap change of blade .)itch.
and in- For those rotors in which cyclic pitch is obtained
ε.γ., τ about release υ oscillation of the blade the pitch axis,
and fully articulated and hingeless systems, the dynamic
characteristics of the system may be important. The
floating selection of α blade retention system should include
on the investigation of the response of the blade to the
motion of oscillating control force. Systems such as tension-tor-
flapping sion straps or wire tic-bar assemblies that have
all the known torsional spring characteristics may be
required to obtain an acceptable relationship between
the natural frequency of the feathering motion and
apeed. the rotational
retention Control system design considerations are discussed
charac- in detail in Chapter 6. Further discussions of both
loads on nullification of the centrifugal centering moment and
the blade optimization of the natural frequency of the
torque of feathering motion are provided by Ref. 45.
Ar ball fi
Α % Α Who of the LD FY.4 λ ρ@Laf9lfN
bearings For shipboard operation, or for compact stowage,
wire it is desirable to bring the rotor blades within the fu-
of tor- solage envelope. When the blades are stowecd in this
type arc manner, there less is much possibility of blade
torque damage when moving the helicopter, or when other
propor- helicopters or vehicles are moved in the vicinity.
Blade folding is preferable to removing blades; there
the is chance of handling damage, and rctracking can less
system, be avoided. Either manual or powered blade folding
inertia systems be can used, depending upon operational
known requirements.
the centri- Consideration be should given to blade folding in
opposes the initial design of α rotor system, even if the basic
of the heilcopter criteria do not include this as α require-
rotation. meat. Appropriate decisions as to the method of
difference blade attachment, radial location, and clevis
to the clearances of the blade attachment joint will simplily
varies incorporation of folding at α later date.
also has
For tail 5-5.4.1 Design Rtquireaseiut
5-5.4.1.1 Manual Blade Foldlag
The following prvisions are required:
I. of Rotor brakes, rotor locks, or means of securing
of trc blades to the fuselage to retain hub azimuth posi-
tion blade.
locks, 2. Pitch locking pins, or fixtures to restrict
reaction, blade motion about the pitch axis, preventing load
with feedback into the pitch forn control system α folded
varies blade
the pitching 3. Flap rcstrainers (articulated, gimbal-mounted,