comirol putr an onocecie
monts for ai:al
δ in pars. 3.7.4.4 and 3.7.4.5 of
ο
fixod-wing apecificationc, and can be mot with ruci-
asgreantation. Aay oouping af tie
mera! rot axc and ~iral modas (comeaonly
referred so α α "apiral-ts or "latoral phuguid"
oqd aqt Aq sqqrrousap ag sou pruous (upou
6-2.3.2.3 Juberent Alrtreame Sitabtley
The unaugnontod (imberont) stability of the bedi-
copter sbelf be considured fuily witih respect to volhicle
coafiguration and flight csvalope liamits, evon thougk
sagmocsstion is planped Τ'isis is sarepsary becaure
situstions can arise ie wbick augmoniation systers
failurcs rocjuire the pios to fiy only with tbc inioorent
webicle Elability. Α cost-effectivoneas and porfcvaa-
anco effactivencas doaign trado-off exists betweex τàε
degros of fight coatrol sysiom aophistication and the
degree of inàcrest stability providod Ery the basic heli-
copier ccafiguration. In offecting such α trado-off
study, tbe lovei of stability required under failure con-
ditions stall bc dafinod since it moay be subjoct to
variation with the flight control systam concept uged.
For exampke, coasides the following thax relation-
shipe betwoen augmentation sophistication and in-
hereat stability:
1. Α rcliable. multiredundant augmentation
system can toleraie α significant dogrce of inherent in-
stability. Α vehicke so aquipped, however, may not be
capable of flight wih all augmentztion switched off.
2. Α single-channel augmen'stion system will
require inherent vehicle stala'ty suitable for com-
pliance with thc VFR requirements of MIL-H-850!
under augmentation system failure conditions.
3. Α dual-channel system will requirc an inherent
stability level somewhere between thc first two cases.
Α hardover failure of onc channel (while operating in
the normal dual mode) can produce α vehicle
response that causes the remaining operating channel
to experience α saturation in opposition to the failure.
Such α failure, with inherent airframe instability,
results in α rapid divergent vehiclc responsc, whercas
the vehicle response with increased positive inherent
trollabic by the pilot.
Α method for improving the inherent longitudinai
stability of single- or tilt-rotor vehicles is the ad-
dition of α horizontal tail; "differential delta thrce"
(rotor blade flap-pitch coupling on the forward rotor)
can be used witin tandem-rotor vehicles. Lateral-
directional stability improvement is afforded by the
tail rotor and α vertical tail surface on single- or tilt-
66

rC4O mechin
(inc!sading tice aft pyion) in tihe of iem-
prca-γ0ont for ta
6-2.1.3.4 Varieaien
Yhe ofieri of addod stabil
the characierixic roots should reviewed thor-
oughly on the root plote, speci;illy wiah regard 1o
changos in aesg srtica gaine, time constants, air-.
apend, and otiher fighs conditione. This iniormation
will holp save timne sind cout by indicating ragicus of
criticel stability and ragioms wiere stabilicy is too sou-
sitive to cortain parammetric varsatioas.
The soot plot formsts important to deeign are:
1. Basic haicpter vertus sirspood, at crisicai groms
veights and st both extromas of the CG range
2. Basic belicopter versus sirspoed, as in Iseue 1.
3. Helicopier with #abilicy augmentation for the
conditions in Itoms 1 aad 2.
6-2.13 Typ δ Caatrd
The typce of stability augmentation appliceble to α
given derign vary in the parameters they control and,
tberefore, in how thcy aid the pilot.
Common sugmniation conirol typas sre:
1. Ratc
2. Attitude and trim
3. Altitude and/or airspeed hold
4. Heading
5. Hover position
6. Special augmentation.
Rate controls provide improved damping of all
augmented degrecs of freedom (poientially six, in-
cluding threc lincar and three angular). This type of
augmentation aids the pilot in coping with the short-
period responses, but does not prevent long-term roll
drift and possibly α slvggish or unstable spced hold,
even with α stabie stick gradient.
The addition of attitude loops and trim functions
(such as lateral accelerometers and speed-hold loops)
aids the pilot by providing long-term trim-speed hold
and strong sideslip roll attitude and pitch control.
The pilot then must provide only the power setting.
altitude, and heading control. Finally, the use of
altitude-hold and heading-hold removes the necd for
pilot input to the controls. Hover-position hold
loops, and controls designed to impart stability to ex-
ternal sling loads in forward fight, are examples of
special augmentation controls.
6-2.1.4 Transient Kesponse
The characteristic root analysis only partially des-
cribas the handling qualities of α helicopter. The mag-