laminates used. For helicopter applications,
found factors of 30 to 40 have been to yield the
results. Additional information on the design of
type of bearing can found in be Re(. 10.
16-3.7 BEARING SEALS AND RETAINERS
16-3.7.1 Seals
arc employed dcvices sealing of al types Seve
The systems. rotor and trains power helicopter
seal. In this ip radiat is the type used commonly
contacts scaling which lip, α V-shaped figuration,
or is held within shaft, or oscillating rotating
"to into is pressed turn in an which case, outer
lip typically sealing The housing. component
or synthetic natural either from fabricated
saling the applications, For oil-lubricated
"forced means of .α the shaft by against
grease-lubricated spring. In fe,-ential gerter
is omitted. usually this spring ponents,
to manufac- inexpensive are fairly seals lip Radial
ture, and provide reliable operation at surface speeds
speeds, For higher fpm. 3Μ, to approximately up
hv••ur,•λ-wlyarm Ω1% lin nl"•v-Av Grtt ensiders. toot ahnidel
interface the seal, of type this In tion. α
between the shaft and the seal is low, and α
dynamic oil film is maintained at the
Helical grooves, indentations, or ribs are molded
ride lip the air of the sealing and are effective
directing the oil flow back into the area to be
operated at be Hydrodynamic lip seals can
10.000 speeds of up to fpm because of the
contact force and the maintenance of an oil film
lubricates the sealing lip.
For all lip seals, the compatibility of the
wit" beta- material 'ι"Ω to , ,τ Μ %1%,,
"account. Many of the current lubricants, particularly
those of the synthetic ester type, have α detrimentd
seal effect on certain materials. Materials such
nitrilc rubber and fluoroelastomers available for are
usc with this class of lubricants. Their use results
increased seal cost, but often is necessary in order
prevent deterioration of the seal lip and
leakage.
For applications involving high operating
sals peratures or shaft speeds, carbon-face
α are used. These seals consist of carbon sealing
called α nosepiece, bearing against hardened
mating rings, which must be extremely fiat.
seals have been used successfully at speeds
temperatures typical of turbine engine operation,
Because of the very precise tolerance required
Smanufacture of seat, all parts of carbon-face
τ is many times that of α similarly sized lip

?Ω202 AMCP
shape Therefore, face seals should be restticted to applica-
bat tions where surface speed or tempsratures prohibit
this sea. operation with α lip
Clearance ring seals - such as labyrinth and =Lb
are also used for high-speed They operation. -
provide scaling satisfactory when the shaft is
rotating, but leakage permit under static coonditions.
used sals should be only in ap- Therefore, these
prese•τ is not of oil head which α static ;ν plications in
in opera- is not componeat the seal when area the in most
cm- tion.
oscillatory which small in applications For the
hings, head in rotor as such motions are present, bonded
Thee been used succemfsully. have seals diaphragm the
samns the that membrane elastomeric an seals employ is
mew- and stationary o, illating the gap between rubber,
tor- undergoes seal. The membrane of the is branes lip
oscillatory motion. As under the sional deflection circum-
,-lArr metal-toi com- and the long as the elastomer
so! is to able intact, the diaphragm rr,.nain bonds
leakage. without operate
Additional information on various available
II. in Ref. be found can α devices scaling
R Bearing 10.3.7.2 pressure
hydro- rings Several μ.-thods are used to retain benring on
interface, shafts or in housings. They include lock nuts, snap
clips lock into rings, retention and staking. Α nut is used
in to retain the inner ring of α bearing on α shaft.
sealed. Together with lo& the diametral interferme fit, the
creeping toed4 under prevents the bearing from surfac nut
I reduced and also provides axial location for the bearing. The
that lock nut may be secured with α tab washer. Tabs in-
serted slots into on the nut lock the washer to the nut,
seal while serrations on the bore of the washer fit Into
thy ,.τ:an: o. τ.1- , θ..ad -- o.φ-..η... -"- --
preventing the assembly from turning.
For lightly loaded applications, in which crWping
us α is not retaived factor, α bearing outer ring may be
groove by α snap ring. snap ring is The installed in α
in ini the bearing housing, and bears against the face of
to the bearing outer ring. However, snap rings provide
resultant no circumferential retention for the and, bearing
be therefore, should not used where the outer ring is
with teni- rotating respect to the radial load. For such
generally applications, retention dips normally are employed.
clips housing, face, These are bolted to the bearing and Μ'τ
steel into slots that are machined into the face of the
can Such bearing outer ring. The dips thus provide both
and axial and circumferential retention. However,
bearing be clips should not used as the primary
method in the selection for prevention of creeping. Proper
their of the interference fit will insuve that the boaring does
eal. not turn in the housing under load.