M M7-2U2
do than conventional systems; and model studies
should be undertaken as an aid. The models
from simple mock-ups of gyro range in complexity
through dynamically and linkage arrangements,
remote controlled scaled models, to wind tunnel
flying models.
Tne dealing paragraph of MIL-C-18244
experimental models studies that notes model
rotor full-scale, engine-driven form of take the
upon a truck mounted suitably SAS assemblies,
for measurement and observation of dynamic
conditions. behavior under forward-flight maxi- The
mlium possible experience with and knowledge of
system should be gained before the start of testing
a man-carrying flight article.
Full-scale wind tunnel tsts, although expensive,
.- an be used to test the flight article progressively
conditions beyond the extremes of the projected
flight envelope.
Further substantiation of the airworthiness of
unconventional SAS and rotor system can be
tained by operating an identical system on a tieiown
teat, where a given nurmber of hours is requirc-i
flight each hour of aciuai icsinig.
to establish data rcqulrcd and The documentation
the satisfactory fulfillment of the technical devel-
opmant plan are described in MIL-C-18244,
stituting SAS for automatic flight control system
(AFCS).
PILOT EFFORT 6-4
The helicopter designer must consider pilot effort,
or control system loads, from two points or vie,..
first concern is the significanice of cntrol feel with
by fly normally Pilot. qualities. to fiying gard phyicald ssocfin t atios. appliednorcea of nd
physical association of applied force and
mapeuve'ing response of the aircraft. iherefore.
cont.ol feel in maneuvers plays an important role
the assessment of handling qualities. Stick position-
ing also is a fundamental characteristic, be cause
h3lds the helicopter in the selected trim attitude when
thu controls arc released. MIL-H-8501 provides
stick position trim and hold by specifying breakout
gradients. force and forces
The other design consideration is rclaied to
structural integrity of the com- components. The
ponents achieve specified factors of safety when shall
subjected to loads due to pilot and copilot effort, arti-
MIL-S-8699 etc. actuators, power devices, feel ficial
of pilot wefort. aspect this covers
64.1 CRITERIA FOR POWER CONTROLS
Whenever line-.rity the magnitude and of control
6-14
:- •

A
loads permit, direct mechanical control be uwed saill
for power controls. can unless there is a valid requirement
is the simplest and most Direct mechanical control
control system. Howcvcr, power-operated foolpioof
system en- wbhn the control systems may be required
vironment contains high control forces, feedback of
or mixing of control forces. The with vibratory forces,
need for power- verify a must system designer control may
weight, their cost, before adding systems operated and
design. ,he helicopter to and complexity bed
6-4.1.1 Control Forces
the Not all helicopters require power actuatots. For
cxarrple, of on small, single-lifting-rotor vehicles, a
system of weights may be installed in the antitorque-
rotor controls. Centrifugal force acting upon the
to weights balances the pitch link loads, and the system
is adjusted on the ground to compensate for the con-
t•annot trol forces in cruise. The pilot trim the system
an in flight, and accepts the unbalanced forces in the
ob- pedals in hover and flight modac cruise. other than
However, this is a small disadvantage in comparison
for with the aimplicity of mechanical design. Also, it may
feasibie be th.. design a to bungc spiring wdil
. pitch ' in collective steady download counteract the
Medium- and heavy-lift helicopters generally
.
sub- require power magnitude actuators due to the of their
loads pitch link loads. Pitch link are sensitive to rotor
blade design parameters, both aerodynamic and in-
ertial.
6&41.2 Vibration Feedback
The control moment of a lifting rotor blade is a
The steady pitching moment with various alternating har-
monic re- components superimposed. in the non-
eermoc.Intenn opoet tr d the rotating control system, these components appear as
the n-per-rcv forces due to the n number of pitch litiks
the passing over the attochment point where the non-
in rotating controls support the swashplate. The
preoence sh of these p vibrations in cyclic stick
it generally is intolerable to the pilot. Vibration ab-
sorbers can be used to reduce the amplitude of the vi-
for bration transmitted by means of a simple mechanical
system.
the 6-4.1.3 Kinematic Effects
forces The generation of control and moments
¶he along and about various axe of the helicopter is
and collective of combinctions by accomplished
3- in par. discdssed as rotor(s), the on pitch cyclic
3.3.1.3, AMCP 706-201. The motions of the cyclic
stick and thrust lev,;r (and, on sonic helicopters, the
motion of the pedals) are transmitted through the
swashplate In to the rotor(s). some installations, the