ci,-:uits power DC and AC for used be should
EMI super-imposed of coupling order to prevent
transients, and noise
-shielded cables and conductor-twisted Two 4.
be audio and control, signal, DC used for should
required. is grounding Single-point cuits.
shoull uable mustiplc-shield coaxial or Single- 5.
is RF grounding Multipoint circuits. for used be
quired.
enclosures necessary. is of shielded 6. Continuity
connectors. be through routed should Shields 7.
returns should Minimum-length grourtd 8.
members from structural insulation and shield used,
be insured. should
Filtess 7-.5.3.3
at outputs of EMI generating the Filters are used
(broadband EMI signal to prevent sources in order
Types paths. coupling interference narrowband)
ani attenuation containment for EMI filters utilized
filters, high-pass, and band-pass low-pass, include
feedthrough capacitors. and as bypass well
induc- capacitance, pao ameters include Basic filter
mb-aiax. iMC.ξ, F•cit and u,.pI.mhwas paraainte,
filtering action by α differant method; ι.ε., capaci-
tance by short-circuiting, -inductance by open-
ι-ltcrs dissipation. by and resistance circuiting,
only the :interfering signals.; How- should suppress
upon desired have an effect the filter may ever,
the equipment. the operation of to rents necessary
loss is of insertion an understanding Therefore,
to filter applications. portant
the capacitors, of bypass In the application
length from the capacitor to ground becomes an
the effective- factor. nullifies Self resonance portant
equaito, 1rejueneieS filter for signals at of the ness
frequency. the resonant greater than, .. .
only can be effectiv; of EMI Filter containment
isolated from olher shielded and he. the source can
thus preventing the interference ternul circuitry,
within or circuitry into other wiring coupled being
conduct spurious may Such coupling subsystem.
directly energy or radiate wiring, to external
must be bonding of the unit. Proper other parts
in currents interference to prevent in order
ground circuit from shunting the filter element.
SYSTEM ELECTRICAL 7-7
INSTALLATION
GENERAL 7-7.1
installa- refers to the instaliatior Electrical system
(equip- oquipmelt tior. and electronic of electrical
(electri~cal wire bandle and ment installation)
7-24

electronic includes This the airframe. in stallation) in
power electrical relays, clectrical ccmponents,
test boxes, junction cabh:σ, coaxial wires, generators,
control aircrew not include does but etc., connectors,
in- system panels. Electrical instrument panels and cir-
MIL-E- with accordance in be should stallation
subsequently. described as and MIL-E-7080, 25499,
re-
INSTALLATION EQUIPMENT 7-7.2 .
equipment installations, of design the During
must be reliability, and producibility be maitainability, ..
the production concept to from design considered
be given to attention should Close phase. hardware
each par- might arise with problems tha: the servicing
all electronic ticular likcly that It is not installation,
The accessible. be made immediately components can
during considered each must be reliability of service or
as electronic Factors such installation. design of the of
test to and acccsibility installation after alignment
is installed If equipment be considered. points must as
of capable must be row con-ip'nents front in rows,
tc rear accessibility to provide quicHy being removed
mounted components.
Equipment-mounting hardware should consist of /
not less 'han Number 10 screws, except where vi-
the box in which case are used, isolators bration
screws should be no smaller than Namber mounting
screws no mounting isolator multiple 10, with the cur-
to in- Care must be taken 8. than Number smaller
behind are not hidden mounting screws sure that im-
neighboring of portions and protruding flanges
approach the straight-in easy accessibility, boxes. For lead
im- should be provided for all mounting hardware.
of the placement involving installations Equipment
ob- or other bulkheads receptacles facing electrical or
room for installation sufficient must allow structions
in accordance α bend radius bundle with of the wire if
and dis- as well as room tc engage .with MAL-Ω-5088. in-
without darmaging the from engage electrical connectors
on boxes should terminals electrical wires. If possible, α
wrench for socket of α ratchet-drive permit the use
and removal. installation wiring from
so as to facilitate be designed boxes must Junction used
to internal Access and troubleshooting. maintenance the
compoaicrts must be such as to permit easy replace-
must be components of internal Th,. locations ment.
Foreign- decals. attached permanently by ider.tified
all junc- on be provided must covers protective objct
must drain η,'les nonsealed boxes, boxes. On all tion
be Wiring musi lowest point. at the be incorporated
for or color-coded and numbered neatly, installed
ease of maintenance,
must be etc., Relays, small transformers, resistors, in-