AMCP 706-202
with fastcnc~σ and/or attachments should be figUred
and/or verified etablished gunfire by tests for each
confguraion.at
7. Built Ceramic. up of various materials, each in-
tended to perform α particular furiclion in defeating
the projectile. for α example, glass-fiber-rcinforced
plastic to absorb the energy of faced impact, with
layer of ceramic tie (aluminum oxiide, Α silicon 1,0,;
carbide, SiC; boron carbide. Β C. titanium dliboride.
4
TiB., etc.) to shatter the projectile. On α weight basis,
some of these composite, compare with favorably
* standard steel armor for stopping plate solid shot.
However. they have poor capabilities for stopping
hits, mnultiple and produce many secondary frag-
ments when struck. Ceramic is the bulkiest of the ma-
listed here. tcrials and usually is the most expensive.
Ceramic-faced. The ceramic facing Σ. may be
applied before or after the armor metal has been
shaped or formed.
Transparenit. Composed 9. of glass or clear or-
ganic polymers. either alone or in combinal ion (Μ IL-
MIL-Α-7168. MIL-Α-46108). 6-5485.
the lowest exhibits armor ceramic general, In
weigpht per unit area for protection against armor-
piercin~γ ammunition and .30 .59)). Metallic 'cal ar-
mior exhibits substantially better multihit capability,
although the probability of α small panel of aircraft
armoi taking α multiple bullet hit from α high-firing-
rate is remote. Metaflic Sun armor for aircrew seats
may become~ competitive on α weight basis when the
arirror is used simultaneously as support or struc-
ture.
2-4.5.2 Deslga
refer For desgiv strcnith and rigidity requirements,
and AMCP NIIL-Α-88&0 706-170. to
LANTS AND SEA 2-5 ADHESIVES
2-5.1 BONDING AGENTS
There are literally hundieds of proprietary ad-
hesivc formulations suitable for various aircraft bon-
ding applicationps. Some of these may be used in bon-
ding α wide variety of materials, while ot~crs are
usable only for highly specialized purposes. Ad-
hesives generally are categorized under the two broad
classificaions of structural and nonstructural types.
Structural 2-5.1.1 Α&Wnves
Thi, category materials of is used for bonding pri-
mary structures that arc subject to loads.'rypi- iarge
cal ultimate band shear streirgths are several thou-
sand psi. Structural adhesives usually arc formulatc~δ
fromt thermosetting resins that, when mixed with α
suitable curing agent, react to form an infusible and
2-30

solid. Depending insoluble upon the type of curing
agent, the conversion may occur within few α minutes
roomi temperature, or. at the othcr extreme, it may
0 reqluire heating up to about 350 F to effect α cure
within α reasonable time. The latter type of material,
to low reactivity due its at low temperatures, can be
α premnixed and stored (often, under refrigeration) as α
one-comnponent system until used.
Nearly all applications of structural adhesives re-
I~ quirc lixturing in order to hold the components being
bonded in contact during cure. this is because at some
point during the cure cycle the adhesive goes through
fluid flow stage. ai
Most structural bonds arc made with tape or film
adhesives. These are usually from 0.005 to in. 0.015
thick, and may be unsupported or supported on thin,
open-weave fabrics (carricirs) of glass. or other !,yon.
fibers.
Filmn adhesives have two important advantages:
Uniformity. Variations 1. .ν thickness and corn-
position are minimal. Because both shea, and peel
strengths are sensitive to bondline thickness, control
thick-1, bondline Although desirable. is variable of this
ness is affected by curing pressure olso variations,
film adhesives. particulzrly those having flow re- ( -
stricted by carriers and/or high-melt viscosities
can reduce thickness variations appreciably. In ad-
dition, film adhesives eliminate the weighing errors
and inadequate mixing that are possible with two-
part liquid adhesives. Quality control checks can be
mnade on each roll of film before production parts are
bonded; this is not practicable to perform on each
batch of most liquid adhosives due to limited pot-
lives.
are available 2. Ease assembly. Film adhesives of
in α wide of tacks. varying from dry to very -ange
sticky. Complicated parts can be assembled simply by
bondline the desired the shape of the film to cutting
and laying it on the first suwface. The second surface
theni is placed in position, and is herld by the adhesive
tack until bonding pressure can be applied. Films
that are not tacky at room temperature are tacked
readily by momentary contact with α hot iron at sira-
laid tegic locations. Parts of many layers may be up in
this manner and bonded at one time. Adhesive waste
also is when films mi~nimnized are used because there is
no exmrss material left to set up in the mixing con-
tainer.
Most film adhesives require curing temperature. of
250*-3509F. and. thercircr. have long shelf lives.
Cold storage usually is advised, however, although
some types are stable for many weeks at room
tempetature. few Α types are available that curm at
lower including itemperatuics, room temperature;
these must be stored at temperatures well below 0*F.