Filtracion is fivriker discussed ix: pars. 9 4.2.2.3 and
94.4.5, AMCP 70v-205.
a-2.6.4.2 Creecd Openatios Fiormion
Ground carts geserrily trcorgorate thei own fil.
O* or oSg gn
fute capability. The beticopier aysier stafi incor.
porate provisions for introduction of the ground cart
fluid through the eysican pressure filter(s) as shown in
Fig. 9-18. This providas for helicopier sysiem protec-
tion if the ground cart filtration is defective.
The two available alternatives in filter elements are
the noncleanabic throuawayc ard the reusatie.
cleasable typee.
α-I.6.4.3 Fiercia Levei
Tax roquired filsation levet is defioed in Mil-H.
5440. «hich spocilios that th: fitration maxt at least
Ge requisamoents of pa!x.-F-Las5.
The dcauanta tnay be cither noncieanablc thron-
avays or ckanable, renzah!e clemtots. Thc chaasab'e
uritl soumaiy are fabricsiei froam pacanl sartene y
twco-timenainal; i.e.. iheve is ao setecive depais in the
Stair Fia-n tigacion. Ihe tarowRwmy clenenes usaully
are thraerinnanzionas in sesricing panick sixe.
Wibile boch may mroe. the sane glass brad test cri.
tavis, tr depth fit:r veilt do a benier job of cioppine
fire particles that are susoder tibas the sominal rstins
of tioc cicnsoat.
9244.4 Ekn2 Cc43.ω)330ς
Enperienoe ki* auwn chn: saste asd tits: sre pri-
mary comiiknion to poor kyc:guik tyaten cosnp
oai bit. Daage to he iy si suir suai areas sndi no
eateszes eont finis dy hart. caittise Cotaminasnte toos
CaLaod suaay probirsres. The cre or frzitxa pictoctine
doosa is un obvious and drairabic mucuns of mini-
anizig toch eifscts. In acdikion, inc-ovements in
saby and rod atzqer decigsss ere required. Seill
SUC.TA% LIRE
RESERVON
-CHECE VAVE
at Vuet Q.CK DI OMST ATTACH
FLG?
FAIEN
Figese D-. Syfeaulde Ggesusn itrinté Fi L'svibiens

AMCP 706-202
another alternstive is the use of rotary outputs in
conjunction with erank arms for conversion to lineer
motion in lieu of lineer actuators.
In any event, qualificstion and environmentat :est
requinaments that are muchs more stringent than
thosc in prescnt Military Specifications must be usad
form satisfuctorily.
9-2.6.5 Filetings
To facilitate instaliation, system components and
lines must heve disconnect-conncct points consistent
with specific belicopier installation requirenensis.
Separable, reucable canaections are requisul for eas:
in ren.ovsl and maintenance. Howevcr, ins niary
cases, permenent futtings may be used in joiriag runs
of tubing where access chrough the instaßlstion is not
requinas. Fsr. 9-4.3. AMCr 706-201. contains a dis-
cussios: of gvailablc fittings of both types.
Ttrcve: sre sekeral reusable fitting ahernatives. in-
CinSiag Hn MiS flarceras aed AN Sare standards, chat
ane en r te-ude snd tb-copgent
onekstions. Thas: aiso include Ihn Rexistona
"Eysgsrku:" and crverai others, and arc dscribexi is
pg:. 3.4.3. AMACP 706-201.
MkE-F-18380 covers the reusable Etting s yuite-
ssanis. Shu: gsueral tet requirements are applicable
to mona fettings and aircraft. However, the stecific
usags srta in tse belicopter must be analyzed. aud
additional testins must be specified as considereo
necessary in order to insure that the fitting chosca
wilt prrform satisfsctorily in service.
The Kossn fitting recently bas hecome availabie as
a exnsmgxinni-ion in:ieronrisce. Tas fiting is shown
in crois sariicns in fig. 9-19. Its adivantages over the
standass APd Soss arod fiting contination inctude a
superior seui desigo end x focking feature that etimi-
nates the rrsc for the us of a second wsench to hold
tiee hess fitting whea removing the line.
LOCKING FEATURE
Nigone 1-79. Focan Enea Fistiag
9.11