fuid viscosity can cause internal Icakage and slippage
in pumps, actuators, and valves. Compressibility of α
fluid increases with pressurc and temperature, and
the resultant loss of volume output of pumps is α
significant design consideration. In control systems,
compression of fluid provides α mass-spring condi-
tion that can limit sysiem responsc. Successful opera-
ton of the hydraulic system throughout the design
temperature range depends upon the interaction of
the hydraulic fluid with all other components of the
system.
The designer shall consider the temperature distri-
bution within the hrdicopier in order to achieve
judicious placement of hydraulic sysiem plumbing
and components in the cocier regions. However, it
may be necessary to locate portions of the hydraulic
sysiem in high-temperature regions of the airframe.
Radiation shiclding and proper ducting for air
cooling may be necessary for such equipment. The
design of actuators locaiod in extreme-tcmperature
arees should be such as to provide for continuous
exchange of fluid to assist in controlling tempera-
ture. This may bc sccomplished by controlled intes-
nal Icakagc. which likely will be inherent in fight
control aciuators, bui special consideration also must
be given to utility actuators, which may he subjected
to extreme thermal environments for extended
periods of time when in α static or nonoperating con-
dition.
Although intermittent-aciuating systems must be
designed to operate with cold hydraulic fud.
theis normal operating temperatures rapidly regard- continuous-power-tranzmission systems will ρ:ach
less of original ambient temperature. Hrat ex-
changer and viscosity considerations favor vse of the
qo ν
without encountering fluid breakdown and excessive
wear of moving parts. For Mil.-H-83282 fluid, the
normal upper limit is 275°F maximum (Class I1
sysiem). However. high-tcmperature design tands to
imposc α cost penalty due to thx atiendsnt require-
ment for special materials, alozg with α reduction in
ge ν
ertics of the fiuid. In many applications, normal heat
loses from lines and components are adequaie to
maintain kydraulic system temperatures within
dezign limirs; thus, use of heai exchangers is un-
necessary.
Fos analytical purpoees, the assumption of uni-
form tesaperature tbroughout = hydraulik circuit
usually is quite sccurate. Wben α pressure drop oc-
curs without cxternal wark resulting — ι.ε.. losses
through orifices and tubing — the hydraulic Sluid
semperature risces by 7°F per 1000 pei drop for cach

υ
AMCP 706-202
circuit. However, this rise normally is dissipated as
thc fluid passcs through the sysiem.
9-2.6 HYDRAULIC SYSTEM DESIGN
Hydraulic system design begins with an evaluation
of the system as it cvolved in the preliminary design
phase. The production configuration requiremenis
are cumpared with the preliminary design, and thc
necessary changes are incorporated. In sddition, &
final examination of the system shall be made in
order to ascertain not only that it mects the procure-
ment specification, but that it is optimum with regard
80 weight, cost, and performance. MIL-H-5440 and
is associated specifications will be part of lic pro-
curement specification.
The subecquent discussion covers the major sysiem
design areas, including number and type of systems.
operating pscssure sciection, fluid media sclection,
fitrstion, filangs, power levels and transmission
system ozaimization, and heet rejoction require-
ments. The starting system is discussed, as are system
analyais, including failure modc and effect analysis
(FMEA). and reports required for mecting thc heli-
apier piocurement specifications.
The component sclection and design requirements
also are discussed, as arc system installation design
and areas of good design practice with general
application to components or installation.
The hydreulic system is influenced by the size and
complexity of the helicopter ard by the procurement
specificstions. Following is α discussion of the criticat
elements of hydraulic systern design.
9-2.6.1 Survivablity. Reliebilicy. and Safety Trade-
efs
The problems of designing for combat surviva-
bility and for system reliability are similar. Redun-
dancy of systems and components may be required in
either case. For survivability, the requirement may be
α tolerance of two hits anywbere in the flight control
system without loss of the capability of returning
safely to basc. The elimination or reduction of thc
possibility of hydraulic system fires associated with
incendiarics also may be α requirement. Reliability
aspects involve icses duc to equipment failures. The
losus requirement may be stated in terms of "no more
than ξ" losses per 10 3,000 noncombat missions. The
component end/or subsysiem reliability requi:ε-
menes may be stated ss mean time betwsen failures
(MTBF), which must be demonstraied by *nalysis,
icst, and service.
Trade-off/optimization studies are required in
order to euabish the basic system configurations
9-7