a frec air dewpoint of - 65°F by trapping and cellec-
squoezad out of the air during compression. In a
syetem preasure of 200 atmospheres, the separator
roduces the froe air dewpoint to -1s°F. Collected
moisture is drained from the separator cither by a
dump mochanism that operates automatically when
aystem pressure drops uputream of the separator, or
by a mcchanism that discharges the moisture at fre-
quent intervals while the compressor is supplying air
to the system.
Th : air compressor incorporates 9 blced valve that
allows the separator to blow down automatically
when the compressor stops running. During this
operation, the compressor and the interconncating
lines to the separator also are blown down. The
moisture separato: includas a heating unit that
prevents the accumulatod water from freezing. Aiso
includod is a rafety disk that protects the scparator
from the effects of overpressurization. A back-
pressure valve is used directly after thc moisture
separator in order to build up pressu.t in the
in downstream componenus. This vaive inures im-
mediate moisture separation when the compressor
starts running. The vaive cither is integral to the
separator or is installed separately. Valves are
availablc with various back-pressure settings.
9-3.2.4 Dehydrators
The basic types of vapor-removal oquipment are
mochanical and chemical. Mechanical dehydrstion usualiy :- : «des a refrig-
eration cooling process that towere the air tempera-
ture below the required dewpoint. The condensed
water then is cellected and eliminated. The limiting
factor is the temperature to which the air can be
svstems duc to the weight penalty of the refrigeration lowered. This type usually is not found on airborne
equipinent. Chemical dchydration normally is used in con-
junction with a moistuie separator in order to pro-
vide maximum efficiency. The chemical dricr is
placed immedigtely after the moisture separator
(refer to par. 9-3.2.3). The pneumatic system beyond
this dehydration equipment thus operates witò dry
air, reducing the possibility of freczing in lincs or
components. Although thçy are called cherical
driers, these units reduce moisture content by the
proces of absorption, and no chemical change takes
place. Each unit consists of two parts: (1) a metal
housing that acts as the pressure container, and (2) a
replaceable cartridge containisg the drying agent.
The life of a cartridge will depe. d not only upon the

.ζ.3.
AMCP 786-202
rate of airflow, but also upon thc ambient and iniet
air temperatures and the moisture con.ent.
If the chemical drier is to be scrviced manually, a
filter sha.'f be includod at the outlet port so as to pre-
vent downstrear: mgration of particles of the re-
placement compouna. Some means of indicating
when the compound is no longer removing waier
vapos effactively shall be included. In the manually
reactivated typas, case of compound removal for re-
placcment or reactivation should be considered. The
compound should be in cartridge or capsule form to
prevent spilling.
9-3.2.5 Fillers
For long life and trouble-frec performance of
system components, the air should be kept as clcan as
possibie. Fig. 9-55 shows some filter configurations.
There are many sources of contsmination: the air
phere, or trom system hose connections and other
iransfer devices. Pa.ticles from worn system compo-
nents are significant sources of contamination.
All filter media act to varying degrocs as both
depth and surface filters. However, they normally are
classificd on the basis of the predominant type of fii-
tration provided.
Depth media depend upon long. tortuous flow
paths to remove ccntaminants. Examples of these
media include paper, cellulosc, felt, glass fiber, wood
pulp, and sintered powder. In fiber filters. variations
in thickness, dersity. and fibcr diameter are com-
bined to produce nominal filtration of 0.5 to 100
microns. Absolute retings vary from 2 to 50 timec the
(A) T-TYPE (6) POT-TYPE
(C) INLINE- TYPS (D) Y-TYPE
Figure 9-55. Füter Housiag Designs
9-35