EOE Σ02 C5WV
thet will meet the previously mentioned goals. The al-
terizatives τ) st may be considered are:
1. Two os threc indepcndent, normally operative
sysicms
2. Normally operative system pius emergency
backup systems, the backup(σ) normally being in-
operative until loss of α primary system
3. Normally operative systems plus hydraulic cir-
cuit breakers (HCB)
4. Intersystem switching for redundancy with sp-
propriate provisions against loss of fluid in the newly
applied system if first system failure is due to loss of
Rluid
5. Combinations of independent system plus intcr-
system switching and hydraulic circuit breakers
6. Use of armor in conjunction with sysiem re-
dundancy
7. Reversion to manual control where applicablc
and possiblc.
For examplc, computer analyses indicate that two
systems vith HCB incorporated are nearly as sur-
vivable as three independent systems, and that signi-
approach. Α complete analysis of weight and cost im-
pact versus survivability and reliability shall be con-
ducted as early in thc program as possible. Close
coordination is required with the procuring activity
during this phase in order to insure that contract re-
quirements are being met and that the design is ap-
proved.
The combat safety aspects are concerned pri-
marily with fire resulting from battle damage. Fire-
resistant fiuids are developed and shall be con-
sidered.
HCB concepts aiso should be considered as to their
fire minimization impact since they can limit signifi-
cantiy the amount of fiuid dumped into α fire.
Noncombat safety aspects are focused primarily on
gronind maintenance aspects of the system operation.
This fscet is coverod in detail in par. 9-2.8. However,
α davic flight contrc' safety requirement dictates that
if there is α compicte power failure, at lcest one
system shall be driven by the autorotating rotor.
9-2.6.1.1 Reservoir Levei Sresiag
Reservoir level sensing (RLS) is α technique which
uses the reservoir to operate subsystern pressure shut-
off valves mechanically. The reiurn portian of the
aynem is isolated by α check valvc located in the
return linc. Both the mechanicaily operated pressure
stutoff vaive and θ return check valve shail be
Jocated as ciose to the central power source as possi-
ble in orger to provide the naximum central power
souroe protection. RLS allows α reduction in punp
9-8

replacement, fiter changing. and fiushing systom
maintenance. The RiS conoept can sensc and isolate
* leak of any magnitudc, thus reducing subsystom
component and/or linc leakage failures that normally
cause complete system loss. RLS is detailed in par. 9.
4.5.4, AMCP 706-201.
9-2.6.1.2 System Swieching
When normally operated or passive backup
sysicms are used as backups for flight control
systems, intersystem switching is an important con-
sideration. The switching function must bc very
reliabie, and must provide for climination of inter-
sysicm Ieakage as : sieady-state or transicnt condi-
tion.
One method of accomplishing the switching fugc-
tion is through thc use of α lapped spool and sieeve,
wish pressure andi return of both systems on the sanse
spool. To minimize intersystam leakage. only the
returns are associated directly so that diffcreatial
prersure between systems is minimized (Fig. 9-12).
Α secoud alternative is usc of check valves to
seferate the pressure side oi the systems. Α power
iFresure snd spring) shuutic is used to switch the
return syaiems. The prezzure and return suritching are
accomplished independently. This approach may not
de acceptabie under œrtain dynsmic conditions of
system operation (Fig. 9-13).
ESCEPT OR TOANEMS
BACR-UN NORJU
SVSTEU SUSTES
CEIL
Rt TUNN
Figue 9-12. Coutbined Spool Swischáng ve
BACA UP SYSTEN DE7um
ьЕ
IDAL ST3TEE
TNSLA.
μ
10
sarvsia
Figare 9-13. Preeaure Check Vebres