706-202 _olingAMCP _ _ _ _-_.__ _ __
Cooling 7-2.23 DATA DESIGN
gene- AC in an α primary requirement Cooling, EQUIPMEN
by air or by CHARACTERI_,_os specification, may be accomplished rator TIS-
are generators oil-cooled and air-coaled Both liquid. EU IO
applications. helicopter for 0ORMATIONemploked 1 Ω For air-coolcd generators, either self-cooling or
of self- In the case may be employed. cooling blast
of the rotor on the is located fan integral an cooling,
CARD LOAD machine, and diffusers or baffling are employed to di-
., ,1Δ SORT rect the air over the hot internai surfaces. the If in.
fan the to provided is ducting that such is stallation
this ducting of characteristics the pressurz-flow inlet,
air- all through-generator that so be considered must
generator self-cooled are met. Α flow requirements
may the laboratory in good performance exhibits that IPT
burn up on the airframe because duct restrictions TAPE
of blast-coo!cd the case In not considered. were
and pressure-altitude airflow inlet generators,
characteristics of the separate forced-air supply must
proper of use order al'ovi defined adequately in be tis.
Cooling-air this manner. cooled in α gcnerator LISTING EDIT INPUT EDIT
tempcrature and ambient altitude versus temperature
cooling speci- adequate of an are vital aspects data
Contaminant in MIL-Γ-6099. as discussed φ.cation
air is required. of cooling lprotectiorn
--.
categories, two into fall generators Oil-cooled YES ERRORS
Oil-cooled and spray-coaled. conduction-cooled CANCEL RUN DETECTED
oil tempe,-atures with inlet are practical generators
0 F. to 330 -65' from
"In cir- is oil generator, the conduction-cooled
and the housing in closed passages through culated
of by conduction is obtained Cooling rotor shaft.
Y heat to the oil from the hot windings. The bearings
and for cooling, as well as oil for lubrication use the
of the weight required. The are seals rotating
- ,- . η- ic ν- -. . .
generator. the air-cooled of that
ef- the cooling oil, in generator, spray-cooled In the TAPE
rest-its This the windings. directly on is sprayed fect,
α along with transfer, in heat improvement in an
to compared 15% of approximately reduction weight
To generator. cgnduction-oil-cooled or the air-cooled
have been generators all spray-oil-cooled date, ANALSSI LOAD
at 12,000 sy:tems, and operate applied to 400-Hz REPOR
α α rating; 90-kVA assume comparison rpm. For
using magnesium generator air-cooled modern
90 approximately alloys weighs and cobalt housing Flow Charl 7-5. Typical Autoration Figure
rating the same with generatnr Α spray-cooled lb. is generally bearings of lubrication Oil vironm-nt.
approximately of weight generator lb. Α 55 weighs of 15,000 excess in speeds tor generator necessary
If cooling. with apray is aciicvable kVA per 0.5 lb br-ν has hr 10,000 of excess in life Bearing rpm.
the to zcavenge it is necessary used, is cooling spray I ~) ι- oil using helicopter generators in achieved
excess oil fesulting remove ι.ε.. to cav:ay, generator gene Ator AC bearing oil-lubricated Α typical cation.
windings. the of spraying from 7-6. in Fig. shown is
7-7