γ ii Extinl Fire 3-2.4.2
high-rate. use designs hbicopter recent all Almost
systems Most systems. fire-extinguishing discharge
α dry by propelled extinguishing agents vaporous use
recently. nitrogen. More of high-presstzre charge
the as pyrotechnics used have extinguishers some
bromotri- as such agents. Inert agent. propellant
often dibromodifluoromethane. or fluoromethane
prop- extinguishing good their of because used are
boiling low the Furthermore, toxicity. low and erties
distri- and vaporization agents facilitates the of point
zones. fire the within bution
that one is system fire-extinguishing An effective
con- volume agent by 15% test, demonstrate will. by
at of duration α for zone fire the within centration
the requirements meet must ι'he system sec. least 0.5
specified in MIL-HDBK-221.
ENGINE AIR INDUCTION SUBSYSTEM 3-2.5
aerodynamic the in usefui are tools Two basic
are: These subsystems. induction air of engine design
electrically an uses which plotter, field I. Analog
that fact the based on is paper and conductive
for identical is equation differential partial LaPlace'σ
tech- This inviscid fluid. an and field an electrical
lines, potential velocity streamlines, local nique yields
two-di- to suited is well and velocities, surface and
problems. mensional
flow computer program, which 2. Potential digital
sources and of superposition of the technique uses
analog field sinks to yield the same results as the
accuracy. greater with but plotter,
the air of design aerodynamic the "Basic for criteria
the satisfy must which duct, subsystem induction
are: engine model specification, the of requirement
any prevent subsystem air induction The ι. shall
at all operating airflow distribution adverse erratic or
attitudes. and conditions
minimal have subsystem air induction 2. The shall
loss should pressure 0.5-1.0% Α losses. aerodynamic
designs. system induction air in most be attainable
(see par. 3- When α particle separator is installed
not but should will be higher loss the pressure 2.5.2),
1% exceed 2.0-2.5%. Each of pressure loss results in
1.5-2.0% power loss.
3. The air iqduction system shall meet the mini-
mum acceptable engine inlet distortion limits as pre-
The local total scribed by the engine specification.
by more pressure should not differ from the average
than 5.0%.
1, and pertain main- Items 2, and 3 are interrelated
gradients determined by the duct area ly to pressure
distribution, duct wall radii of curvature, and
these changes of duct wall curvature. To insure that
3-6

gradient pressure the duct met. ι• are requirements
ω the cross- decreasing by flow the for favorable made
con- by length and its along duct the of area sectional
equations. to polynomial duct the of walls the touring
Deuign SWuiswu .dmetliou Air 3-2.5.1
an fitting by established is profile lip external The
or I Series α NACA (usually contour cowl external
the to point tangent lip the from shape) elliptical an
usually shape lip inner The boundaries. envelope inlet
parameters design the and contour, has an elliptical
cir- Α Kuchemann-Weber Class I. Ref. in given are
para- design yield 2 Ref. in described cular intakes
also Ref. 2 I. in Ref. given those to similar meters
free to inlet velocity of range design desired α suggests
ι.ε.. ratio. velocity stream
(3-1) 0.65 !_χ 0.4 / V,,_< V,
where
fps inlet velocity. V, =
fps velocity. stream free V. =
ve- lcading-edge of the possibility this range, Beyond
nose. at the breakdown flow hence and locity peaks,
greatly. increases
frontal area is certain minimum that α shows Ref. 3
within velocity external maximum the to keep needed
when is satisfied This criterion limits.
+4 ( I - V / V.)
(3-2) Ž I =- +
/ 1 Vo) Α, (V, - 1
where
in3 area, frontal inlet maximum = Am
in.' diameter, inlet, inside of = area Α,
sur- edge leading along velocity = maximum
V,,ρ
fps face,
in- should pressure measurements addition, In
pressure, evaluated total in inlet that variations dicate
engine in the defined as index, of α distortion terms in
specified the required are within specification, model
values.
Protection Inlet 3-2.5.2
The engine air induction subsystem should be
designed, to the maximum practicable degree, so that
foreign objects from external sources will not enter
level of protection re- induction subsystems. The
quired for the engine air induction subsystem is de-
Various air fined during preliminary design. engine
in Chapter particle separators (EAPS) are dccribed
AMCP 706-201. 8,
device, An engine air inlet sand and dust protection
criteria specified in Chapter if installed, shall meet the
8, AMCP 706.201.