Military Spacifcations in order to keep veasols from
sbattering under gunfire. Wire winding contributes
added strength, but uaually is not regarded as a light-
woight compoaite construction.
Poeumatic-system veercis, which must be charged
and diacharged several times daily, must withstand
maay tbousands of cycles without failure. To insure
that high-cycle lifs veasels will mect their require-
mauts in rervice, factors such as stress level, choice of
material, sbape of the vessel, surface conditions, joint
design, heat treatment, and environmentel conditions
during use must be coneidered. Thc ratio of test
presure to service preaure is usuaily 1.67:1. How-
ever, the ratio is governed by individual spociñca-
tiona, and, in some casos, may range from 1.5:1 to
2.0:1. The ratio of minimum burst presure to service
ж preeure depends upon the design stross levels, but is commonly 2.22:1. Ratios of 2.0:1 to 4.0:1 often are
indicatod by spocific cycle-life requirements and other
sonive considerations.
9-3.29 Ssbuyne
Subeystem components are discussed in pars. 9-
3.2.9.1 through 9-3.2.9.4.
9-3.2.9.1 Acinators
An actuator, as used in helicopter applications, is a
power unit that produces a force or torque for
positioning loads. Normally. pneumatic actuators arc
of the linear-motion type, and are designed to in-
dividual specfications. Among the types manufac-
turod are specialized actuators of the piston type
(with built-in dampers), used for the retraction of
temperatiare piston units for both high and low
preasures; cargo ar.d passenger door actuators; store-
ejoction actuators; screw-jack actuators for high-tem-
perature applicaion :, and air motor and screw-jack
actuator assemblies that form a part of such systems
as nosewheel storing. Advantages of pneumatic ac-
tustors include speed of operation, simplified power
requirements, and ability to withstand ambient tem-
peratures to 500°F. The inherent limitations of pneu-
matic actuators result prinarily from the elastic
propertics of the compressed sir working fluid. Fig.
9-62 illustrates typical lincar pneumatic actuators.
in this single-scting actuator, the power stroke is in
one direction only, and can be either the out-stroke
or in-stroke. The return stroke is sccomplished by
some cxternal means; a doubie-acting cylinder ran bc
usod for this purpose by connocting the act sating
fuid line to on!y onz port through a threc-way valve,
leaving the other port open, Special single-acting
cylinders are designed with piston-sealing devices

y
AMCP 706-202
(A) SINGLE ACTIN..
BAAAA7
AAAAA
(B) SPRING RETURN
(C) DOUBLE ACTING
sody
that seel in one direction only. These cylinders have a
port hole in one heud and & bleeder hole in the op-
posite hesa.
The spring-return actuztor is a single-acting cylin-
der, with the re*arn stroke effected by a spring. The
length of the cylinder in the retracted position is xt
least twice the actual stroke length becausc of the
spring Iength. The initial spring force, as well as the
increase in spring force due to spring rate during
compression, depcnds upon the amount of force
required by the spring-actuated stroke.
In the double-acting actuator, the cylinder has a
power stroke in both directions. The actuating fuid
line is connected to both heads of the cylinder, usual-
ly through a four-way valve. Most standard catalog
cyiinders are double-acting. The sealing aevices also
operate in both directions.
Rotary actuators rotate an output shaft through &
fixed arc to produce oscillating power, converting
fluid-energy input to mechanical output. They are
compact, simnple in construction, and efficient, pro-
ducirg high instantancous torque in either direction,
and requiring only limited space and simple mount-
ings. Rotary actuators consist of a chamber or
chambers for containing the working fiuid, and a
movable surface against which the fluid acts. The
movable surface is connected to an output shaft to
produce the output motion.
9-43