Α typical plot (Fig. 5-29) cf the tracking data
ρ- orded by any one of several tracking methods
during an rpm sweep of an articulated rotor indicates
that blade (Α) is aerodynamically similar to the
master; however, an incidence or pitch adjustment is
required to correct the blade track to zero. Blades (Β)
and (C) can be corrected by downward trim tab ad-
justment. The appropriate adjustments should be
made to bring all blade tracks within the tolerance
level compatible with crew comfort levels previously
established. This tolerance will depend on rotor size
but commonly will equivalent be to dIfferential blade
coning angles min. of the order of 5
Α typical plot (Fig. of track data during 5-30) α
collective pitch swoep with the same articulated rotor
depicts blades (Α) and (C) out of track δ.ic to dy-
namic unbalance. This condition is corrrected by
moving α portion of the adjustable weight of blade
(Α) forward while that of blade (C) is moved aft.
seen Blade (Β) ι: to be dynamically similar to the
master blade without adjustment. Weight adjust-
ments and/or trim tab or trailing edge adjustments
rmvide -"will hlnd that are dynamicaly and aerody-
namically alike, permitting interchangeability with all
that other blades of configuration. In both Figs. 5-29
and 5-30, the reference master blade is shown as α
horizontal straight line through zero without slope,
Several methods of tracking blades may be
employed; the accuracy, safety, and reliability of the
electronic trackers provide excellent results.
In addition to tata flat and collective tracking data,
determined be should moments pitching blade the
with α suitable calibrated load cell. Pitch link forces
should match master the blade pitching moment
demonstrated that vibratory levels do not exceed the
limits of MIL-H-8501 and that life-limiting oscilla-
tory are stresses not induced.
$&4 ROTOR BLADE MATERIALS
varie- broad α relatively α-δ in par. 5-6.2, discu As
construc- ty of materials may be used in rotor blade
tion. This piiragraph considers the major factors that
lo lead the selection of specific materials, based upon
the inherent properties of the materials and irre-
of construction. details the of spective
Helicopter rotor blades unique arm in that many
conditions that must be met depend upon various
combinations of material properties. Α rotor blade
must be designed as an integrated com- part of the
plete rotor system. One specific requiremenW is that
the mass moment of inertia of the rotor system must
be of at least α minimum value to provide sntis-
factory autorotational characteristics. This require-
5-σ0

ment much has influence in the establishment of the
minimum mass distribution for the rotor blade. No
weight savings can be realized beyond the limit ir-
pGed by this requirement; thus, exigts α point beyond
which an increase in the strength-to-weight ratio of
the material cmnnot reduce blade weight. Although α
high strength-to-weight ratio is desirable, more im-
portant factors are the ratios of both the fatigue
strength and density to the modulus of elasticity of
the nmaterial.
α The tetal loads on rotor blade cannot be pre-
α dicted by straight forward examination of rotor
thrust and centrifugal force.rTe loads depend upon
the response of the blades to the periodic airloads
which themselves are affected by the blade motion.
The blade response also depends heavily upon the
mass distribution. Α change in stiffness affects the
bending moments, radii deflection, and of curvature
of the blade to the extent that the response is
changed. It is impos.ible to predict - without α re-
evaluation of the blade response whether α change -.
in stiffness will increase, decrease, or have no effect
on the radius of curvature of the blade. In other
words, the radius of curvature of α rator bWade do,
%Α not have the simple proportional relationship to
> .. stiffness that exists in α static structure because the ..
bending moment is α dependent variable. Neverthe-
less, the following equation from simple beam theoty
for the radius of curvature ρ is applicabtle
= . (5-9)
- - O Zt--I
and bending stress crt in α particular material with
modulus E is
or'σ psi (5-10)
AE-
Substituting Eq. 5-9 in Eq. 5-10,
_.-,π
ρ
where
 distance - from beam neutral axis to outer χ
fiber, il.
 modulus - ofclasticity. ps . E
4 in inertia, of moment I . -
bending moment, in.-lb Μ -
If α stiffness change is made in such α way that the
distribution of mass and stiffness is unchanged, the
blade response, and thus the radius of curvature, also
wid be sub ntantially unchanged. Then, as in Eq. 5-11,
the blad. bending stress will increase in direct pro-
portion to the material modulus of elasticity It E.
follows that the most desirable rotor blade material is