as is practicable to minimize serodynamic intrr-
fereeos and local flow variations duo to the influorice
of the main rotor(σ). Senoor accaracy levsis sbouid be
selected for compatibility with fire control sccuracy
reguiremenis.
Sensors locatod internal to tke helicopter shal! be
protected againet the vibrstios shock and power load
environments associcted with the spocific Iclicopter
design. In general, any sonsing oquipment locatod
within the srew compartment must be capable of
withstanding craah loed factors without detaching
from its mountings. Vibration isolation should be
provided in accordance with MIL-E-Σ400 and MIL-
STD-810. Power requiroments (including number
and siae of electrical wires), the nocessity for
ahialding. and/or thc usc of nonstandard electrical
oonnectors should be considerod in the dosign of the
internal mountiag structure. Mounting provisions for
all sansor units should provide for easy romoval of
fastoners and coanectors, and for structural clearance
adequate to permit rapid romoval and/or repair
during maintenance operations.
Sensors uaing clectro-optical or eloctromagnetic
energy should be iocated in regions where they will
axperience minimum electrical interference from
other aircraft equipment. This principie applies to
both the intarnal and the external (transmitting) por-
tions of the oquipment. The electrical power require-
nsents of thosc equipment typcs can be significant. In
order to minimize transmipsion losscs and clectrical
intorference, it is nocessary to: (1) locate the sensor
copler power source, and/or (2) minimize the sepa-
ration betwser the sensor unit and the point of air-
crast transnission. In addition, care should be taken
to avoid potential hazards to the aircrew during
opesation of tbe equipment.
84.Σ COMFUTERS
The airborne fire control computer is α special-
purpose device that accepts quantitative in-
formation, trrangce it, performs α mathematical cal-
culation, and provides qualitative output in-
formation. This definition describes α simple eloc-
trical computing circuit as well as α digital computer.
The specific roquirements for the compuier are es-
tablished by the degrec of fire control accuracy de-
sirod. In addition to supposting fire control compu-
tation, the airborne computer may be employed to
assist in fligbt control, navigation, and communi-
cation tasks.
The specific dosign requirements of the computer
systom shall be in aocordance with the governing
design requirements of the fire control systam for

AMCP 706-202
sharing belicopter na: gation-avionic computation
functions.
puter dosign roquiremonts. Compuier vibration iao-
lation will be roquired ss specifiod in the dazign re-
quirements. In mocting compuier acccss require-
mo-nte, consideration must be givon to removal, safe-
ty, roplscoment, aná component iuspoction.
8-4.6 FIRE CONTROL ACCURACY
Guns and rockets shouid have adequate structural
support in order to minimize helicopter structural de-
flections during firing or launching. Optical sights
should be located so α to avoid the sighting
aberrations of canopy distortions. Sights should be
installed upon rigid mounts, but without inducing
undue sight-line vibrational distortion. Locations of
sights and armament should be such as to avoid the
probability of excessive parallax errors in the fire
control computation. The sight and armament sub-
systems should be installed with suitable adjustment
and lock devices for proper boresighting and nar-
monization. Electronic equipment should be pro-
τ cted from the noisc generzied by helicopter power
equipment (and by any other componenis likely to
generate clectronic noise). Data sensors and ballistic
computer: should be chosen so as to provide com-
ponent accu acy characteristics consistent with the
syztem accuracy roquirements of the governing heli-
copter specification.
8-4.6.1 Iawrtiad Stablizatiou
For some applications, stabilization of the sight
rsticke is uaed in order to remove helicopter motion
dynamics as α source of sighting error. Stabilization
is also incorporsted in automatic target tracking
equipment. This equipment typically is designed as
part of the sighting station, but remote auxiliary com-
ponent location may be ruquired. Auxiliary com-
ponents shouid be installed in accordance with design
practices specified by the sight supplier.
8-4.6.2 Fire Costrol Datum Plane
Α physical reference surface shouid be established
σ0 as to relate sight and armament equipment for
basic alignment and harmonization of the fire control
system with the aircraft structure.
In α fixed weapon system installation, the weapon
firing line generally is aligned so as to be parallel to
the aircraft datum line. The designer should conçider
weapon characteristics, such as tangential projoctile
throw and/or barrel cant, during the alignment
process. If the systemn is radar-diroctod, the radar linc
must be aligned parallel to aircraft datum.
8-9