17Ξ
706-202 AMCP
istics affecting the helicopter. These data should and provides be Iems, Λ means of generating good flight
gathcrld over the full range of helicopter con- vehicle characteristics.
figurations and for the complee flight envelope. During the past few years, heavy emphasis has
Wind tunnel testing also can provide important in- been placed upon efforts to identify and understand
formation on inttraxis cross-coupling effects. the fundamental technological and phyfiological fac.
Measuring the damping derivatives directly in the tort involved in the man/machine interface, par.
wind tunnel generally requires complex proc--dures ticularly with regard to nonhelicopter rotorcraft
and techniques. K~owever, the time constants as- systems. where ths basic vehicle configuration often
sociated with the changing aerodynamic forces and is dictated by the pilot'σ control ability. These efforts
moment" often arc small compared with vehicle already have produced quantum increase α in the
rr.iponsc, allowing steady-state wind tunnel results to knowledge of control system theory and criteria, sta-
be used with sufficient accuracy in dynamic analysem, bility, human factors, handling and flying qualities,
For ex.-nple, wind tunnel !ν maurti,,cnts of the horn- end hardware design. Because nonhelicopter rotor-
zontal tail lift characte.ristics and the downwash craft are advanced systems, their ability to comply
existing at the fail location can be used to calculate with specifications must be substantiated prior to any
the pitch-damping contribution of that surface, significant financial expenditure. Piloted flight simu-
knowing the tail arnt. lation provides the means for assaessins, and demon-
system pilot/vehicle the of adequacy 'the strating Tests 3ench Hardware 6-6.2.2
hardware procurement. Aa flight control prior to lardwhre components the .rf
systdemrbe ome ponentsble , theyshoube σ cte ontrol Pilotcd flight simulation should be employed in the
system become available, they should be subjected to development of any system whet.. the pilot is in-
laboratoey bench teats in order to describe ac- volved directly in the contro! loop. Α partial list of
curately their performane ε haracteristics. Tprse flight control design and development studies that
results then may be ,pdate used to the data Τ o el cn be used in piloted simulation includes:
~ *vo__! μ.π~oyegl irn the mathematical models. The Ssetblt opitidcdoiiaiz ε
piot-induc-. to (Piwi I. stiffness, as rich Susceptibility items define Osculation testing can fm- bench
effects failure mode of Analyses 2. .;raits. rate and level, thresho!δ responi%, quency
3. Definition of control harmony requirements
6-6.3 GROUND-BASED PILOTED FLIGHT 4. Height-velocity capability, with emphasis on
SIMULATION human factors
air turbulent in qualities Handling 5. not design system control flight helicopter The
studies trade-off 6. Design minimum the with in compliance result should only
compo- flight control mixing of and 7. Scheduling specification, the handling quality of requirements
functions nent po- quality handling θ: maximize should also but
system augmentation of stability 8. Optimization to the with regard viewpoint from the pilot'σ tential
forces system control ann flight configuration of design detail requirements. Therefore, mission
Cornpnex fliaht control systems renuires that the Weapon 9. delivery suitability
characteristics and re- mode 10. Conversion by using the simulation be inserted into human pilol.
rotorcraft) non-helicopter (for quirements simu- flight piloted moving-base or fixed-basc either
(pilot familiarizetion, Flight teat supplement however, does not pro- II. simulation, lators. Fixtd-base
support) test test planning, for his environment α realistic the pilot with vide
recovery. entry and 12. Autorotation un- respond him to forces and sensors, body
realistically cr, sometimes, falsely. Thj correct en- Piloted simulation is effective particularly in failure
vironment consists of α proper representation of the mode studies. All types and combinations of failurs
helicopter equations of motion and α proper pilot en- can be presented for evaluation of transient response
vironment, including vision, sound, touch or feel, and characteristics, profile of pilot reaction, allowable
motion. time delay prior to corrective pilot action, the need
Use of α high-fidelity, moving-base, piloted flight for fully automatic protection, and the resultant limi-
simulator is α cost-effective approach to the en- tations on mission capability. Initially, such studies
ginetering development of helicopters. The flight are conducted using α fully mathematical rtp-
tool that can provide high resentation of the helicopter. hardware com. As simulator is an engineering
confidence in design decision-making regarding new ponents become available, they can be substituted for
" systems. Application of moving-base flight simu- their corresponding mathematical models, thereby
λ stion early in the helicopter definition and develop- enabling refinement of the previous estimates made
mental cycle identifies pitfalls and potential prob- for items such as friction and hysteresia.
Σ~6-27