AMCP 706-202
annealed steels, do better than machinc rolied stels
steels the low-carbon of properties and the macbining
phos- of sulphur. 1he addition by arc improved
phorus. or lead.
forming excellent have steels low-carbon The
by any of the readily be worked and can properties,
is formability ready Their normal shapin3 processes.
to interfere carbon less is there that fht the to due
heidr-. withthe lans th sam ofslip tokn,
increafsesp. withe inmereasing carbon witulty plao df
ok i a wtough ctn
content.
is the most readily welded of all Plain carbon steel
tke least presents (0.15%) steel Low-carbon materials.
to 0.30%, content increases carbon as the difficulty.
a result of rpidmartensitic. some martcnsite may form as
coling. ftheyare coyfole too rapidlt aftr a ldi,
cooling. If they Arc cooled too rapidly after welding.
but pre- harden, steels may hil[.-carbon arid medium-
 0 I 100'F will to post-heating tM00 F or to heating
nicrostructures. remove britde
on the is steels low-carbon of strength yield The
is steels bon high-cat of that -while psi, 46.000 of order f eelsti- s o mo dulua tht psi.while 0,000 4 of or theorder elasti- of modulus The psi. of 150,000 order the or.
v m aii for 3S0 miiiion at tension remains in city
ban steels. Core (Brinell) hardness ranges from 4
frobon steels.Cove 40Brfnlhihardnessranges c rb om,
higher carbon. to 400 fo low-carbon for
2-2.1.3 Alloy Steels
significant that contain those are steels Alloy
as manganese, alloying metals amounts of such
are added which or nickel, chromium, molybdenum,
with properties mechanical obtain higher in order to
A family thick sections. in especially heat treatmoent,
al- and tempered extra-high-strength, quenched, of
because these wide use boy come into steels has
of ld s;reingths. havc y.. rial.s than more c...a. lW IArlf
psi.
to resistance good relatively have steels alloy The
and is good, Weldability tough-ess. or fracture,
alloy steels castabihty are fair. The and machinability
than can greater depth to a can be hardeneC generally
Many content. the same carbon steels with unalloyed
with sulphur or added available steels are of the alloy
re- However, machinability. lead for improved
steels recommended are not leaded and sulphurized
stressed of drastic re- pa. ts because aircraft for highly
steels arc e The alloy properties. in transverse ductions
cor- the are than forge to difficult more somewhat
maximum and the steels, plain carbon responding
about 50% are forging temperatures recommended
lower
an- in the done is it performed, Cold-forming.
and strength of the high because con6ition nealed
Notch materials. duaility of heat-treated limited
is condition the heat-treated alloys in of toughness
Cor- steels. of the carbon that better than much
2-2

same. hih the is about rosion resis,.anc
steels is used for alloy lie system designation I AISI
Is an alloy steel, -hich by 4130 This is illustrated also.
molybdenum, and 0.30% steel coltainin.g chromium.
carbcn.
Stainless Steels 2-2.1.4
10.5% chro- at least contain stees All stainless
chro- 1s least at eellent nless Ai
is corrosion resistance from which excellent
obtained. Apparently, a very thin, transparrnt, and .
sur- upon the chromium film of oxide forms
face. This is film inert, or passive, and does not react
exposure to corrosive There are three upon Materials.
thee by as defined steels. of stainless broad types
cf.
Austenitic stainless steels, which have an austeni-
tic structure at rom temperature, arc known as the
duc- have excellent materials (AISI). These series 3W
tilit, at
corrosion the highest temperatures, very low t
scale re- highest the and steels, all of resistance
temperatures. at elevated and strength itancc be can but achine, m to are difficul, steels ustcnitic A " ,• ok o ot4rt ie s hncr fom.
work- of r-te the to given is carc when formd
rcat- haideniiig. They art not harderiable by heatt -
ment. Welding 'one is best in an inert atmosphere,
must be care conductivity, the low thermal f becae
:% taken to avoid cracking. Carbide precipitation is
"". the one of by selecting welding minimized during
or 347. e.g., 321 grades, stabilized
have good and are magnetic steels stainless Ferritic
the low carbon-to-chromiumn of ductility. Because
are transformation of thermal effects the ,atio,
by heat and not hardenable steels are the eliminated
4- to any not work-harden also do They treatment. 4,4
arc formed and easily,. are machined e-tent. grcuit
is type stainless ferritic general-purpose readily. A istp
.enerl-p 430.
.,A
carbon-to-chro- have a higher steels Martensitic
treatment. by heat are hardenable ratio and imiurn
hardness, ductility, by good characteriLed They are
are. magnritic steels an edge. These ability to hold and
. to impact, and resistant are tough in all conditions,
200,000 psi when of up to tensile strengths and attain
Type very well. machine steels hardened. Martensitic
group. steel in this widely used 410 is the most
Steels Hardening Precipitation 2-2.1.5
that arc those steels (PH) hardening Precipitation
due to the pre- low temperatures at relatively harden
inter- or titanium copper, aluminum, Lipitalion of
or nonstainless They be may compounds. metallic
is stain- P11, which is 17-4 best known The stainless.
requiring fcr parts used and is lcss composition by
and corrosion to good resistance strength and high
 0 is 17-4 PH to 6 0F. of up at temperatures oxidation