"
the desired from
certifiable or equipment neceasary, As b.
such to measure capabilities required equipment
specified errors
of proof and standardization Repeatability c.
frequency for inspection and methods check
check specified equipment
given limits location within mounting Gear d.
for inspection specified or equivalent Item 4 in
accumulated and adjacent on Tolerances c.
hollow lead slope, slope, spacing, profile tooth
and of profile and lead, waviness of profile fuliness
appli- lead, and undercut o; cusp specified where
cable.
13. Chart format:
chart for involute profile and lead a. Inspection
predetermined standard for required to conform to a
consistency proper interpretation and
with explanation of inter- b. A sample chart
magnification and paper pretive technique specifying
speed provided, travel
14. Pattern limitations:
beating pattern checks a. For spiral bevel gears
required in lieu of profile and lekd checks
Sb. and by which bearng Methods ma'hine.s
corn- contact checks are performed on production
ponents run against "working masters", checked
specified). turn against "grand masters"
pattern c. Data defining gaging dimensions,
boundary tangencics size, shape, and location; and
V and H and profile settings through specified
specified Ref. 81 for further definitions). (See
4-2.2.2 Bearings
design, life of bearing application The discussion
and ,otrois that fllows is limited arnaluysis, draw•i1
radial cy- ba,, angular contact ball, and to radial
However, the basic lin rical roller configurations. d
sufficiently general to serve principles introduced are
element type well in application design of any rolling
charac- bearins. Efficiency, reliability, survivability
were and standards recommendations teristics.
treated prcviously in pars. 4-1.2.1 and 4-1.3.3.
Army helicopter transmission bearings have
two times greater primary failure rate exhibited a
four tinme higher than that than that for gears and
(Ref. 46). remaining transmission components all
was three their replacement rate wt overhaul Also,
"times that of the that of gears and 15 t~nies
of these maining components. The majority
failure such placements were due to secondary
importance to Also of debris ingestion and corrosion.
finding that ball bearings (pre- is the designer hhe
applications) exhibited ten times dominantly thrust
4-48

....
-. ".- ZVI
bearings. roller of cylindrical primary failure rate the
reductions rate failure the achieve to order In
that, advisable it is goals, MTBF by modern required
desig:,er: the a minimum, as
supplier bearing the with agreement to I. Come
neetds. application to specific with respect
by per- requirements appli-.ation Clearly specity 2.
specification, or drawing tinent
gains of potential effectiveness the Evaluate 3.
to un- order in specifications with amended available
price are justifiable. in what changes dcrstand or
with specifica- bearings for compliance 4. Inspect
tion.
elements of bearing AMCP 706-201 describes the
type selection and gives many examples of typical
primary function of helicopter configurations. The
bearings is to provide accurate positioning helicopter
shaft components under wide ranges of of gear and
life. Means of while also exhibiting satisfactory speed
in the paragraphs achieving this goal are described
that follow.
4-2.1.2.1 Application Design
create :he major dif- Four aeneral areas apocar to
( or They arc.: ficuitics in bearing applicaiion tiasign.
I. Mounting practices
in 2. Lubrication techniques
Internal characteristics 3.
4. Skidding control.
4-2 2.2.1.1 Mounting Practices
In most helicopter applications of the rolling
rela- in relatively large are loads the bearing, clement
tion to the physical dimensions and weight of the
of the requires consideration bearing. Good design
of a sys"CM; adeQUate SUPPOr SUe, elastC buhaVioF
end nonrotating rings is for both the rotating
and housings necessary, and the supporting !-hafts
rigidity than the bearing rings. This must have greater
be satisfied by use of shaft wall sections criterion may
least as large as the bearing inner ring that are at
total hotising-lincr-quill cross thickness, and or
sections equal to the total bearing cross section. Use
of thinner se..ions should be avoided unless careful
are analyses prove that they and deflection stress
for feasible.
and spinning are undcsirabie Fretting wear, creep,
associated with the bearing in- phenomena generally
interface (inner ring rotating with re- ncr ring-shaft
Proper inner ring interference re- respect to load vector).
parameter for control of as fit is the most important
these condition-
r.'bbing of Fretting wear is the result of localized
and is difficult very, small amplitude at the interface,