5. Dutermine location for cooling fan and, based
on required heat rejection rate of the coolcr, choosc α
fan thet will most the airflow requirements of the
cooler. Csoler spocificationc te be met arc:
Ratod cil flow spm
Rated air flow 3/min
Ratod beat rejection Beu/min
Oil inlet tomnperatuze •F
• Oil out ξ temperature °F
Oil inlet prcsure paig
Oil preasure drop psi
Air static prossure drop in. H,C
(*Thcee values will be establishod by the sysien
design and the heat rejxction requirements.)
Any number of actual combinations of airflow and
cooler sizes can meet the establisiod heat rejection
roquirements. Hovever. tbe final choice will be based
upon the sysiem interfaces, ι.χ., availabk fan Srive
power; location of fan and ducting required; fan size
limitations imposed by surrounding airframe or other
hardware; and resulting limi ations on airflow coo!er
location, and size linsitations. The necessaty cal-
culations for α cooler and fan design are presented
fuity in Reí. 18.
44.2.2 Coolineg Fan Sizing
Sizing of the cooling fan can be accomplished by
the method Gescribed in Chapier 8, AMCP 706-201.
The airflow requirements (volume, pressure, and
velocity) will be determined by the heat rejaction
required of the coolcr, the oil flow rate, and cooler
core parameters. Based on the required airflow, α fan
that will interface with the available drive and space
can be designed to meet the requirements. Both axial
and centrifugal fiow fans arc used in cooler blowers.
Choice of the type of fan is dependent upon airflow
volume and pressure requirements. The axial fan
generally is used where higher shaft speeds are avail-
able, and pressure head at the cooler is high. The con-
trifugal flow fan generally is used where high volume
flow at lower pressures is required. An adverse side-
effect possible with the axial flow fan is α high pitch
noise.
44.3 EMERGENCY LUBRICATION
Design of α power transmission system to mect
specific emergency opcration requirements entails α
comprchensive evaluation of cach and every dy-
namic component that ca:: influence the loss of crive
continuity as & result of interruption or loss of lubri-
cation. Redundancy of power paths, dormant auxil-
iary lubricants, secondary cooiing systems, and
specific design tolerances are considerations directly
pertinent to emergency lubrication or operation

σ γ
without bencfis of primary lubrication and cooling
tablisbing and evaluating design paracuciers ax-
sociatod with energency operation, ι.χ., fail-safe
dauign (Rufs. 35. 37. and 38). Thc basic cricrion that
og ra nn eqa minium of 30 min subaequent to tota! loes of
lubricant. As α riaimum, thc continuing flight sball
be at the power Icved requirod to maintain the spoud
for maximum renge at sca level standard conditions.
Lous of lubricant initialiy is synonymous with loss
of cooling and is followed immediately by an in-
creose is ihe coefficicnt of friction with attendant in-
creasc in bert generation, due to the change to dry
operation. As ibe primary beat transfer medium of
oil is lost, an immediate heat buildup occurs at the
heat-generating points; and the sccondary hcat
transfer paths becorne paramount. If unstabilized
healing is to be averted, the hcat gcnerating cierment
must maintain α balance of heat generated to heat
transferred through the secondary medium at α
maximum temperature that is safe. Heat sources
(gears and bearings) must be designed to minimize
doy friction losucs, and ihc genrcrated hest musi te
transferred away by the most efficient means avail-
abkc.
Gears desigucd for fail-safe operation must have
sufficient clearanse to prevent interference at the
higher stabilized tempersture. The clearance neces-
sary is determined by calculating the differential ex-
pansion between steel gear œenters and the same dis-
tance in the housing. which is usually noaferrous
material. For instance, α gear set consisting of
straight spurs operating at α center distance Lco of
6.0 in. and α normal operating temperature of 200 °F
may attain α temperature of 900°F while the alumi-
num housing containing the gesrs (and bearings) only
rises to 400°F. The rate of expansion of the stecl Σ. is
6.5 × 10-* in./in.-°F and the aluminum expansion
rate Ss is 12 × 10-• in./in.-°F. The differential
amount of expansion would then be
ΔLCD = (Tδ -ΔTA1δ1) ×LD
* [(Τ - Τ1)Fe δFe - (Τ - Τ1)Α δαt)
× LcD
[(900 -200)(6.5)10--(400 -200)
(12)10-*1 ×6.0
[(700)(6.5 × 10-•) - (200) (12)(10-•)]
× 6.0
[(45.5)10-^ -- (24)10-*] × β.0 (4-6%)
= 0.013in.
The significance of the preceding calculation is that
the gears expand in α radial direction toward cach
4-8?