4Ξ
metals. Normal corrosion is not α problem. Although
they are nonconductors for electricity and poor con-
be ductors for heat. they can exceedingly tough and
wear-resistant, and can fabricated in α variety of be
and waya. When judiciously selected pioperly used,
better they often can π.rform at lower cost than any
other material.
TABLE24
GALVAN'C THE IN METALS OF POSITION
SERIFS
CORRODED END ANODIC.1
SLE)
• MAGNESIUM
MAGNESIUM ALLOY
ZINC
ALUMINUM 1100
CADMIUM
ALUMINUM 2017
OR IRON STEEL
CAST IRON
LEAD-TIN SOLDERS
LEAD
:I TIN
-•-;Τ
BRONZE
ALLOYS COPPER-NICKEL
TITANIUM
MONEL
SILVER SOLDER
NICKEL
INCONEL
CHROMIUM-IRON
18-8 STAINLESS
18-8-3 STAINLESS
*.SILVER
,• GRAPHITE
GOLD
PLATINUM
PLATINUM Λ
______
(CATHODIC] END PROTECTED
OR MOST NOBLE)
SOURCE:
REFERENCE DATA FOR RADIO ENGINEERS
FEDERAL TELEFHONE RADIO & 3RD Co.
THERMOPLASTIC 2-3.2 MATERIALS
Thermoplastic materials are those that soften when
heated and harden when cooled. Typical of the ther-
acrylics, nylons, are the polyvinyls, moplazic family
have Often, these aitd fluorocarbons- tes, polycarbon
structures. Products of these linear micromolecular
by extrusion or by in- materials usually are formed
Jection molding, and they are available for manu-
form of rods, tubes, contoured facturing in the
2-8

shapes. plate. sheet, and film and in α wide range of
sizes, shapes. and thicknesses. The materials are
by thermoforming pro- machined, or shaped readily
ccsscs. Many items may be purchased in thc finished
form as produced by extrusion or injrction molding:
screws, included arc nuts. bolts, inserts, grommets,
straps. pins, knobs, handles. instrument facings. . ;
receptacles, electrical conduits. boxes, housings,
Many slides. and snaps, guides, runners, rails, covers,
inven- off-the-shelf as supplied are items these of
tories in α variety of sizes.
en- Nylons and polycarbonates are known as the
ginecring plastics. Nylon, α polyimide. has high
strength and high elongation, giving it α toughness
that many applications depend upon. It has high
modulus in flexure, good impact strength, α low co-
of friction, and high abrasion resistadcC, as efficient
well as good fatigue resistance under vibration con-
ditions. Its primary disadvantages, though not signi-
ficant, are dimensional change with moisture ab-
sorption, and the need for incorporating carbon
black in order to against )rotect ultraviolet de-
gradation in outdoor use. Nylon is used in gears,
arms and other contact applications, and in pressure
pads. and we.ar tubing, belting,
car- of esters aromatic are polycarbonates The
tough- and rigidity excellent They have acid. boric
absorp- strength, and low water high impact ness.
α wide tion. dimensionally under They are stable
are and cieep-resistant, are conditions, of range
their sunlight. Probably and stable in transparent
that their resistance is major deficiency is fatigue
lower than is desirable. Polycarbonates are used in
shields, lenses, ammunition chutes, knobs, handles,
etc.
The acrylic of interest here is polymethylmetha-
crylate, better known as Plexiglas. This plastic has
crystal clarity, outstanding weatherability in optical
π, operties and appearance, dimensional stability,
.4. absorption water α low and resistance, good impact
rate. Its major deficiency is its low resistance to '-
*
and for as window glazing Its major use is scratching.
such applications as transparent aircraft covers;
covers for signal lights, where its ease of coloring is
advantageous; and in other optical and instrumenta-
tion applications. Its use as α window material is dis-
cussed in par. 2-3.5.
For helicopters, the polyvinyls are used largely in
or upholstery simulating leather the form of sheeting
In and wear-resistant. very tough These are fabric.
to make pockets the transparent form, they are used
and holders for documents and maps.
The fluorocarbon poymers have excellent thermal
400°-550*F. temperatures of stability at continuous