cqre penoqe °gAngne
ticn subsyatome, sxarting subsysiem.
controle, trenmmiasd lon susbaystom, and APU (if ap-
doable). Interfaon design considarations outlinod in
par. 15-2 sball apply. Speciflc design attention must
be girea to maintainability objectives and must in-
clude quick-change capabilities and accessibility for
visual inapections, maintenance, and servicing. Ad-
ditdonal propulsion systom dosign criteria are avail-
able in Chapter 3 and in Chapter 8, AMCP 706-201.
15-3.2 INTERCHANGEABILITY/QUICX-
CHANGE
Only onginc components and sccesaories shall be
mountod on the engine. Design objoctives include
component and accussory arrangomenis that facili-
tate interchangoability. Eugine compononts and ac-
comoriws chat vary vith installations will be ro-
movabie in kit form to schieve interchangeability at
mininun maintonance cost. Interchangeability ro-
quiraments are outlinoá in MIL-I-8500.
Holicoptor oparational availability is sensitive to
engine change roquiremonts. Therefore, engine 8: -
ceeeory pecks or moduies should bs designod for at
* tachment to the cngine to forin α complete engine as
sombly. The design of tbe balicopier must allow foi
5 installation and ronoval of the engine asembly as α
singie unit. To roduce lifo-cycle auaintonance coats,
case of romoval and reinstallation of the engine ao-
pal dasign objoctive. Quick-change capability should
be achieved with α minimum of spocial tools.
15-3.3 CONNECTORS AND DISCONNECT
POINTS
Approved, standard, quick-disccnooct mechanical
and ciectricai coupings snaii be ussa as roquirod.
Automatic shutoff couplings in accordance with
MIL-C-"413 shall be amployod with fluid lines to ro-
duce apis age aad contamination during propulsion-
8,stam maiateoance. For case of alignmont and μ.-2ι-
max quick-change times, MS 28741 flexible boec, 0ρ
the equivalent, skould be used for fluid lines betwen
the propulsion systom and the firewall. MiL-11-25579
appties to bocus for high-temperaiure locations. The
naumber of connector and coupling types shalf be
sinimizad. Seleccion of eloctrical coanoctors is dos-
cribod in MIL-STD-1353.
:534 INSPECTION AND TEST POINTS
Sensors incorporated within the propuision sys-
ν rt- ν
and subeystom(σ) condition, performance, and ef-
ficiency. Sonsors sball be providod at additional
154

points as requirod to accomplish diagnostic tosting
compatible with tbe overall heiicoptor tost and diag-
nostic systom (par. 15-2.5).
15-3.Σ OIL, FUEL, AND LUBRICATION
Oil system drain valves shall ailow gravity drain-
age cloar of the helicopter. In addition, tse valves will
be self-locking to preclude accidental loss of fluid.
The design of fuei-servicing aroe: shall permit casy
and thorough clouning. Areas shall be marked clear-
ly "for fuel only" and designatod as to type or typos
of fuol as appropriate. Filler connoction designs will
proclude the accidental connoction of water hoecs
with thosc carrying other fluids. All fuel tanks must
be capable of being drained completely and purged
while on thc ground.
Pormanantly lubricated hardwase will be usod
wicrever poszible. Required grease fittings should be
deuignod in accordance with MIL-F-3541, MS 15000,
15001, and 15002.
15-3.6 GROUNDING
Α static electricity discharge path to ground must
be provided through the Ianding gear or, for whocled
landing gear. an external ground wirc. An MS 33645
rexptacle for grounding the refueling nozzie should
be installed not more than 42 in. nor leas than 12 in.
from the filler opening for gravity fueling systems on-
ly. Provisions must be made to ground the airframe
through skids or other mcans prior to any servicing.
refueling/roarming, stc.
15-3.7 STARTING
Α self-containod engine-atarting system is requirod
for most Army helicopters.
Externai cioctricai power ior ground starting wili
be furnishod through connectors and receptacies in
accordance with MIL-C-7974. The turbine jet-
storting receptacle, if installed, will comply with MS
25018 if α split bus system is used. The standard con-
noction for DC is MS 3506; for AC, 400 Hz 120/208
V 3-phasc, MS 9τ362 will be used.
15-3.8 GROUND HEATERS
The designes shall provide α 12-in. opening for σ ъ
ndnns
engines below 350 hp) in the acccssory section, for-
ward of the firewall and closc te high-temperature-
demanding units such as gcarboxcs and oil-system
componants. Α beater duct opening behind the fire-
wall also is desirablc to facilitate cold-weuther main-
tenance and sorvicing.
Hot air should not be directed onto electrical har-