706-202 AMCP
is at the proper phase. Both the SAS and the
control system must retpond to this frequency.
Ref. 21 discusses the theory that ν-per-rev
brations may be reduced considerably by suitably
the same frequency. phased control inputs of
type of vibration suppression requires large amounts
of power, and shortens the life of the control system
considerably. such suppression is to be used, If
control system and SAS frequency responses must
approximately 15-20 Hz.
When dual SAS actuators are inserted in vertical
linkage, the mass of the actuators may induce
control motions in response to vertical accelerations.
In α specific case involving the collutive pitch
with friction lock disengaged, the weight of the
arm coupled with the vertical motion of the
copter produced α sustained oscillation. Mass
cing of the control linkage and/or the use cf viscous
dampers are methods of curing these oscillations.
Gust alleviation by means of control inputs
sponsive to gust-sensing instruments still is
developed. Closely allied to gust alleviation is
frame load limitation by control velocity restriction.
cos•trol However, the requirements of the two tend to
conrlict iocau-. gust aaieviution requirv-ξ rapid
Strol rcspons.ý. Becaue both programs have as
objective the reduction of airframe loads, the
alleviation system should perfonm the duties of
Ultimateiy, the SAS will include the fun~ctions of
alleviation and load limiting in addition to
quality improvement.
33SSRELIABILITY
The expr-ssion for the fa.lure rate of Π,
aggregate of components in α system, as shown
Ref. 22, is
'\λ / +(!Λ2 PA + - PI ν Π , hr-' ni 1+ !"2 = 2 2
where
Lumber ct ;nponents rt of nomcdundant
failure rate Π, having the
-number I of redundant components having nr
the failure rate Π,
nonredundant components of number - ν2
having the failure rate Π
2
 number - of redundant components having ν'2
the failure rate
Π2
Α mechanical SAS having fewer than α dozen parts,
all of which have α very low failure rate, is u!trU-
reliable compared with an electro-hydraulic SAS
hundreds of parts. Oa the other hanm, the weight
penalty of providing redundancy in critical parts
the electrohydraulic system ii not great. As seen
6-12
ρ-~-

7 ý,' -ý
Α'
_____-I....
entire Eq. 6-1, the sggregatc failure rate is highly do-
pendent largely upon the at-iount of redundancy,
vi- given that the design insures that failure of one me-
dundant component does not affeW the operation of
the other. This
6-3.3.1 Safety
the The designer must be cognizant of the influences of
be the inherent stability level of the helicoptcr and its
SAS performance upon flight safety. Added stability
margins can improve safety during night flying, or
small during limited-visibility situations caused by the
presence of dust or snow ,louds. During such
lever operation-;, the provision of improved stability levels
pilot'σ oilot allows χ¢ncentrate the to lesb upon flying the
hell- helicopter and more upon other pilot duties.
balan- The flignt control sys'em should be designed to
allow the pilot to detect or diagnose α failure, disann
the failed system, and effect corrective action. This
re- requirement may involve soine for- ι of onlinc status-
un- monitoriag for the variouL control system elements.
air- Design compliance with the current Military Speci-
fications does not preclude θ,- possibility of inad-
vertent flight operationt with one channel of α dual-
con- channel Izstion augmý sy:ni inopcra.v¢. In this
their type of failurt, the differenct, in flying qialities is
gust small enough to be undetectable by the pilot. Thus, "
both. the pilot may enter α flight condition in which fail ,re
gust of the remain;ng SAS channe! cannot be corr cLed
Zasonable flying- within α reaction time.
certait For critical situations, α need exiets for
automatic control activation. vxainple, For electro-
mtchaniLal SAS links should revert automatically to
the α mechanical lock if hydraulic pressurr is los. .This
in eliminates the possibility that α sloppy extensible link
will create control difficulties while the pilot is at-
tempting to cut off failed the system. Another exam-
pie involves external cargo-handling -lowing or
(6-1) operations, necesry where it may be for the load to
release automatically if the applied moments exceed
controllability. safe levels of
6-- effect analysis (see par. rerul σ of the failure The
2.3 of this volume and Chapter 3. AMCP 706-203),
including any supportintz piloted simulations, should
re.ults 5υ flight test. These and verified reviewed be
then should be incorporated into flight handbooks in
the form of wuning notes or flight restrictions for
various failure conditions.
6-3.3.2 SAS Faihnur
with Α discussion of madu, SAS failure limitation of
authority, and time delay criteria may be found in
of par. 6-4.4, AMCP 706 201, and in par. 6-2.3 of thib
in volume. Failurts of rotor-mounted. gyroscopic SAS'σ