9
INS oporatiork is governed two basic by
priciple lb. gravitational pull of the earth -
gyroscopic the principle. Essentially, the is INS
musnory, of stable platform, up a a computer, a
outputs from presentation. Many t~an derived be
unit true. north, a e4g., velocity and direction, -
angle. and autopilot signals all necessary to
determine flogt track.
The only requirement necessary for installation
inertial navigation equipment is the provision
precise iongiudinol for Wis reference.
EMliEMC procautions also must be taken.
8-3.4 JNTERDICFION EQUIPMENT
Because of security considerations, this discussion
necessarily is limited. Generally, a specific electronic
countermeasure (ECM) device will live quadrature
information (general location of the equipment
surveillance), frequency, pulse width (if pulsed),
peak cycle, and everage power, and repetition rate.
ECM The is designed to provide other types also
as information i! required. ECM is desirable -.
lion equipment, not only to provide the helicopter
crew with information. but to telemeter the
bion back to secondary forward anaiysis armas.
In addition to ECM, roay desirable be to it
laser optical or ranos..flsders, ranging gunlaying
to radar, or other devices aid the interdiction
in performing its mission and to pinpoint targets
ground forward artillery. Communications,
secre, will form a part of the systent.
part While not actually a of the interdiction
snout, the electrical characuteistics of the helicopter
must be considered be part a of the mission. to
Acoustic noise, radar reflctivity, and infrared
sianatarp moist minimived In hp sditio;dn, th-
craft mssonwilspecify radio frequenc~y
sian owa.
8-3.5 L0W-LIGHT-LEVEL NAVIGATIONAL
EQUIPMENT
This equipoent is unique. and required only is
are specific missions. There three basic types of
The equipment. first type is low-light-leve!
sion. In is simplest foirm it nothing more is
dlosed-circuit TV employing a c~mea that is
tive. partic~ularly to low light levels.
The second type is an adaptation of the
9 used ' device 'mnouperacope or nultiplier
World War stabilization 11. Optical and )
&iction techniques have bein refined, and the
system has proved some unique advantages,
system is The third, mad most prosnisiag, the
a (13.) detection type. It consists of fhare
--

AMCP 706-2022
physicuii a signal conditioner, a power supply, and aa scaInner,
and video The display. scnsor responds to a spec- selected
viade trum in the 1K region, and operates in total dark-
and a extremely ness. is sensitive Rt and can discriminatea
such bttween sight temperature differences. The system
to include very accurate -%rab definition. cao ht designed
pme- and thec resultant display on a dark night can dupli-
cato daylight a TV picture.
of These low-li~ht-lcvel devices are used in activities
of a that caii for radio silence, acoustic silence, low radar
Normal reflectivity, znd low iR signature. Flight techniques
iinportat. also are
8-3.6 STATION-KEEPING EQUIPMEN4T
Thie c~uipmcsnt geinerally is used for maintaining a
position directli 'wer a point on the earth and for for-
mation flying. The systems usually are employod on
under larger, load-carring helicopters requiring precision
duty positioning for pickups and drops.
In applications requiring loading and unloading
of from a hover, Doppler radar is the most rcadily
nterdic- aviiable andl precise type of station-keeping equip-
rnent. Most conventional Doppler navigational
informa- rnivip na'ngnti. n- nsvteniq S*dinett d-n nsMa an tn arre
the frequencies are rlatively high 4nd accurate. At
include zcro velocity. the Doppler shift will be zero, and
determination of movement is difficult; however, re-
aircraft cent developments by avionic manufacturers effec-
for tively have permitted zero error during hover. This
usually type of system is recommended for station-keeping
for loading situations.
equip- Doppler syttems require specific antennii
locations. Generally, three- or four-beam patterns art
used. Some manufaciurers incorporate all functions
(IR) into one antenna. Certain types of equipment require
tha antnn air- 1h .1 ib~dlruibizunp
5
tranamis- poses. Provisions antenna for location must be made
during the early dtsign phase in order to maximize ef.
in ficient use of tht area the fuselage belly.
For station-kaeping during formation flying, many
techniques have been used in the past and are
for satisfactory under both VFR and IFR conditions.
such Cost-effectivenecss decisions will determine equip-
televi- ment selection. Radar, together with beacons,
than a LORAN, or special IR, may be considered.
sensi-
8-4 FIRE CONTROL EQUIPMENT
photo-
GENERAL 6-4.1 during
intensi- The airborne fire control system selectively per-
imn- forms the of Weks establishing (1) that the weapon is
aligned Properly to hit tie target, and (2) driving and
in- holdinS the weapon platform to a commanded Pon'-
sensor- Lion.
8-71