v4.3HUMAN....On~
Α prer.xquisite for ain affective system control is α
design definition of control au mentation neoded as α
function of total pilot workload. Α force focl system
may require no pilot control in order to maintsin α
trimmed flight condition.
64.3.1 Comirx Force Cues
The control force aytem should provide:
1. Trim position identification tha: will enable the
pilo* to focl an out-of-trim condition and to fecl and
identify trim when returning
2. Hold control in trim when the pilot is flying
hands-off
3. An increasod force cue to indicate increasing
severity of maneuvering wherever it occurs. An in-
creesc in gradient with increazing airspcel is recom-
mended. Care should be taken to avoid force cucs in-
troduced to the longitudinal control due to collective
inputs. The optimal system would provide α constant
relationship between longitudinal stick forces and re-
sulting aixcraft load factor during maneuvers.
mediate and significant cue to the pilot, indicating the
. Xopter response to control command in any flight
cc. dition. This tightens the loop of pilot control and
vehicle response, and enables the pilot to rcalize op-
timum control. Α lesscr performance Icads to use of
the fel system only as α trim hold device, and thc
pilot may prefer to turn it off under demanding con-
trol situations.
6-4.3.2 Developmental Test
Moving-base flight simulation can be uscful in
developing the optimum control fecl to suit the
helicopter mission. In the moving-basc simulator,
pilots can draw upon past experience to identify
desired force feel characteristics. Stick force pro-
portional to rates of control displacement, helicopter
angular rates, and to normal accelerations should be
investigated so as to insure the design of an optimum
system.
As the functions of the artificial fecl system are in-
creased, the complexity of the feel unit also in-
creases. Α design requirement for & specified linear
gradient in the region of trim and α different linear
gradient at grcater excursions can result in α feel
system with more than one sprirg. Furthermore, if α
requirement exists for nonlinesr force versus de-
fection characteristica, cams or linkages can be em-
ployed. Fig. 6-7 is α schematic diagram of an arti-
ficial fecl system.
Flight safcty at high spoeds can be incrcased by
reducing the occurrence of high rotor loads associ-

AMCP_ 706-202
ated with: excessive control displacement. Α dynamic
pressuro-scnsitive (γ-scnsitive) control foroc fecl
systam produces minimum forces in hover and
maximum force gradicnts in high-speed flight, wherc
the sensitivity is greatet. This concept is an elter-
native to use of à control ratio changer in tho pri-
mochanical (with q-bellows), electrical, or clectro-
hydraulic.
In fixed-wing aircraft, q-fcel is provided iur α
slight'υ diffcrent purpose. The pilot flics the airplane
by sensing, among other cues, normal acceleration
and control stick forces. Response oi an aiplane is
such that the change in normal acccleration jur unit
of elevator defloction incrcases with q. If the arti-
ficial stick force per unit of elevator deflection aiso is
made to increasc with γ, then the relationship of stick
force to normal acceleration can be made to ap-
proximste α constant value of stick force per γ.
regardless of flight speed.
Military Spocifications useful in the detail design of
the artificial foel system include MIL-H-8591, MIL-
Σ-8698. Μ1Λ-F-8785, MIL-F-9490, annd MIL-F-
18372.
SPANG
CAM CONTROL ROO TO
POMER ACTUATORL.
ww
TAIM
CONTHOI ASTUAIOR
CABLES
(Α) TRIM CONDITION CONTROL DISPLACEO
CONTROL CENTERED FROM TRIM
(Β) TRIM CONDITION CONTROL DISPLACED
CONTROL DISPLACED FROM TRIM
Figure 6-7. Artificial Feel and Trim Schematic
64.4 AUTOMATIC CONTROL INTERFACES
Inner loop stabilization signals are summed with
the pilot'σ commands through electro/hydrome-
chanical actuators in serics wich the pilot'σ controls.
It is important that che high-frequency, small-ampli-
tude stabilization signals do not reach the cyclic stick
in the forni of foros or deflections. Thus, there is α
6-17