K
EP-705-2Δ2
drag spring to react the centrifugal self-energization 4-2.2.4.3 Self-energlzing Spring Clutches
during slip conditions, and may producv con- Although there have been kio applications of spring
siderably lower overall drag forces at intermediate clutches in production helicopter systems, con-
slip conditions. The single-cage design frequently em- siderable interest has developed in them because they
ploys an integral rib on the sprag which contacts the have the potential advantage of reduced weight and
adjacent sprag ard thus limits sprag overload rock size for α Liven torque capacity. The principal de-
angle. torrent to the use of spring clutches in helicopters has
The overload failure modes of the two types also been their poor release characteristics in over-
differ. The double-cage design fails by sprag turn- running. Recent design improvements feature α
over (with resultant pernmanent loss of drive) while tapered-width helical spring of rectangular cross sec-
the design with ribbed sprag and α single cage fails by tion and cylindrical outside diameter (Ref. 97). The
slipping. However, both failure modes gen-rally ex- torque transmission is between α cylindrical outer
ceed the 2 Ξ limit torque requirement by corn- race and the outside diemeter of the spring. The de-
fortable margins. The single-cage clutch usually has α vice may servo-actuated be with an energizing pawl
higher torsional spring rate than the double (for that contacts the small end of the spring or self-
equal envelopes) along with α greater tolerance for energized by friction forces between the spring end
oscillatory loading conditions. and the outer race. Recent development and test cx-
Proper lubrication of either type requircs coin- perience is reported irn Ref. 98.
plete oil immersion. This often is accomplished by
use of full-depth cirrular dams on both sides of the
unit. σ;rag 4-2.2.5 Rotor Brakes
AMCP 706-201 describes the basic requirements
for rotor brakes, while AMCP 706-203 presents the
E.Λ2.4,Z Ra-π and Roller Cl minimum qualification test requirements. Thi dis-
Ramp and roller clutches also have found cx- cussion, therefore, is confined to typical detail re-
tensive successful application in existing helicopters. quirements and limitations and to basic design and
Such designs employ α cylindrical outer race as in analysis procedures.
sprag clutches, but use cylindrical (hollow or solid) While this paragraph treats only hydraulically ac-
rollers in lieu of spra•σ, plus α multiple-cam-surface tuated disk- and puck-type brakes, the basic analyti-
injier race to provide α wedging action on the rollrrs cal techniques presented are sufficiently general to
upon engagement. O,,errunning usually produces aid in the development of design criteria for other
roller complement roli.; contact with the outer race types of rotor brakes. The disk brake has become vir-
and sliding with the inmu... Consequently, most tually the standard for helicopters due to its relahve
moderate- to high-speed applications feature inner simplicity, ease of inspcction and maintenance, and
overrunning. input outer ρ~acc desion reliability. ρ*ε.re with This
may require forced feed (pressure) lubrication Α rotor brake differs significantly from α wheel
through the inner race to obtain satisfactory full- brake both in failure modes and in functional '
sneed overrunning, requirements. The catastrophic failure mode for α
Spring-loaded cages or individual roller springs are wheel brake is failure to engage, or failure to stop the
used to force the rollers into the wedge to secure reli- aircraft. Puck clearances are nil, contact speeds are
able and rapid engagement upon race speed syn- moderate, significant cooling may occur during and
chronization. Α thorough analysis of the dtsign after use with disk ventilation assisted by rotation,
geometry and speed characteristics of these clutches and repetitive use with short operating cycles and in-
is givea in Ref. 96. terva!α is common. The catastrophic failure mode for
Due to the rcduced radius of curvature in the roller α rotor brake, on the other hand, is unintentional
as compared to the spra8 cam, roller clutches have operation. Puck clca-ances must be very large, con-
lower torque capacities than sprag clutches of com- tact spreds may be very high, the primary cooling is
parable size. Ovcrrunning drag torque also is gteater provided by the disk heat sink, and iepetitive use in
at high speed& for the roller clutch. Failure mode of less than α 5-mmn time interval is virtually im-
this clutch type at oveytorque is slip, if the cam/iuce possible.
components arc sufficiently strong to preclude their
fracture, drive capability is not lost. In most instal-
lations, the roller clutch has shown α superior 4-2.2.311 Requirements and Limitations
tolerance to oscillatory torquc-induced ω-ar. Recent performance specifications for Army heli-
4-62