ALMCP 706-202
structure. but away from electrical components
(unless clectrical systems are shrouded).
Drain 'ines for combustor, fuel pump. gearbox,
vents. ctc.. shall be connected with frangible
fasteners, and made of low-strength materials.
Preferred design calls for engine-mounted fucl
boust pumps with suction fucl supply. In the event
that tank-mounted boost pumps are required duc to
fuel subsystem configuration, they are acceptable if
mounted with frangiblc attachments. Electrical lead
wires must be 20-30% fonger than necessary, und
shrouded to mirimize crash damage.
Self-sealing. brcakaway couplings shall be used at
all χ onnections. Filters and valves shall withstand 30-
γ Hoads applicd in any direction. Electrically actuated
valves can'be bulkhead-mounted, with wiring on onc
sidc and the valve and fucl lines on thc opposite side.
APU oil tanks and coolers also shall withstand 30-
γ loads, and inust be mounted away frcg impact
areas. They shal/ be located within the compartment.
but away from hot sections and inlet air ducting to
prevent ingestion of spilled oil. Oil filters shall be
integral with the APJ.
Batteries and elecirical accessorics shall be located
high enough in the fusciage to remcve them from
possib:: Nluid spillage areas. They sAall be compart-
3-22

ρ:γ
men:alized with Reaible firc resistant pancls. Extra
wire length is nceded and shall be supportec with
frangible connections. The dasic structure shalf with-
stand 30-γ loads applied in sny direction.
REFERENCES
1. C. R. Bryan and F. F. Fleming. Somc Inuernal-
Flow Characteristics of Several Axisymmetrical
NACA I-Series Nose Air Inieis ar Zero Flight
Speed, NACA RML54E 19Α. July 1954.
2. Kuchemann and Weber. Aerodynamics of Pro-
pulsion. McGraw-Hill Book Co.. NY. 1960.
3. J. Scddor, Air Intakes for Aircrajt Gas Turbines.
Journal Report. Royal Aeronsutica! Society. Oc-
tober 1952.
4. SAE Aerospace Applied Thzrmodynamics
Ranual. Socicty of Automotivc Enginecrs. NY,
October 1969.
5. Τ. Himka and R. Δ. Semplc. Engine/Transm:is-
sion/Airframe Advanced In:sgration Techniques.
TR 7Σ-16, USAAMRDL, Fort Eustis. VA. May
1975.
6. N. Β. Johnson, Crashworihy Fuel Systrm Design
Crueria gnd Analysis, TR 7I-8. USAAMRDL.
Fort Eustis, VA. March 1971.