It has been determined that rotor blades
vulncrable especially to lightning. To avoid
to blades oubject to lightning strikes, provision
be made for low-resistance paths for the high
that are characteristic of lightning. The basic
ning pro:cction requirements for all
systems are given by MIL-Β-508'. For blades
structed cf composite materials - inherently
conductors or even those of all-metal bon ded -
structio., adequate protection against
damage be demonstrate4 by test (see par. shall
AMCP 706-203.) Valuable preventive design guide-
lines are given in Chapter 7, AFSC DH 1-4.
5-7 ROTOR SYSTEM FATIGUE
5-7.1 GENERAL
Critical helicopter components are sub;ε.τ
load spectrum characterized by α relatively high-fre-
quency oscillating load content. Characteristically,
the rotor system - particularly the main rotor
produces and endures the hi3hest cyclic loading.
fundamcntal design requiremont is long life of
system components. Resor.ant conditions
Elumi. dn levCes Bywu.. ua11wnig stcss V1agho )
contponrnt must be avoided. However,
with these requirements can be verified only
the correlation of flight test and component
test data. The discussion that follows supplements
description of fatiguL life deterinnnation given
4-11, AMCP 706-201.
Corrosion has α rapidly degrading effect
fatigue strength, and related life, of α particular
ponent and this effect is difficult to predict in
curate quantitative manner. Corrosion-resistant
terials ani/or proven corrosion prot•,ction
thus should be used to cbviate the necessity of
sidering corrosion in the daternn.iation of
system component fatigue life,
metal failure rf the Fretting is the erosive
small displacernents of heavily the result of ias
methods parts. All preventive mating
and development employed in the dasign should :ε
fretting betwe.ν to preclude the occurrence of phase
components, particularly crifical, highly stressed
blado/hub retention areas. Fretting occurs
ly in areas such as tenwon-torsion strip
bearings, (particularly low-angle oscillating applica-
tions), ι•.vtntion hole bushings, and blade/hub
tachment fittings. The degree of sucrxss in
"venting the occurrence of fretting is J
through careful inspection of various components
that have been subjected to fatigue tests thnt
actual installations and loads,
\~

are Rotor system components with long lives can be
damage attained by implementing α combination of tech-
must niques in the initial design. Preliminary calculations
currents of rotor system natural frequencies and loads can be
light- made with α reasonable degree of accuracy for α pre-
acrospac4 scribed number of representative vehicle flight con-
con- ditions. The mission profile specified for the vehicle,
poor coupled with load calculations for spicific flight con-
con- ditions, can define α preliminary load spectrum, con-
ightning sisting of load magnitude and frequency, as well as
8-9.4, frequency of occurrence. Thes data, when combined
with section property and theroctical stress concen-
tration factors foi α component design, cast be con-
"Yerted to steady and oscillatory (stress Σ-N versus
LIVES com- number of cycles) data. Therefore, preliminary
ponent life can be determined based upoa cumu!α-
tive Oaniage and notched and unnotched material or
to α similar fatigue test data. Coupon fatigue test data
must be used with cure aince these data usually will
not reflect accurately the effects of manufacturing
- processes that aic peculiar to α specific component
Α design. Σ-Α' test data for components of similar
rotor design and manufacturing process are more useful in
thai pro- the preliminary detcrmination of component life (see
within α pa;. AMCP 4-!, 706-201).
compliance Although the previously described method can be
through employed in the prelimihary design phase to predict
fatigue component life, α mote rigt•'ous analysis of :ompo-
the ρ.ent fatigue and flight test data must be performed to
in par. determ;ne the final life of the component. In the lab-
oratory fatigue test it is necessary to simulate the ac-
or the tual combined loading conditions, particularly in
com- areas of local attachment or where actual load paths
an ac- may be in question. For example, tkt ,,•/ρ blade ρ
ma- root-to-hub attachment, α meanie.1φ: .j] .-
methods tion of the fliaht condition ia¢hnokc ct•ν- χ
con- flap and chordwise momaents and shears pa vaixtio
rotor superimposed or the centrifugal force. Because, is 'I
not feasible in many caste to include all associated -Nr
is test, it often in the fatigue influencing components surface
by to simulate loca: flexibilities offered loaded important
in- to simulate local force bearings, etc., or flexures, practicable
offered by pivot article such as those puts to the test
or lead-lag dampers. point friction
The failure data acquired for an assembly quite
common- often will involve the failhre of only one component
packs, of that assembly IThis component then becomc the
limiting factor in the life of the α&scrmbly. If such α
at- component is α replaceable item, it can be replac"δ
pre- periodically during testing, as failures occur, in order
determined to acquire failure date for the longer-life conipo-
nents. Although the individual components o! the
simulate assemhly can be tested separately under simulated
loading conditions. 'esting of τ~ε complete assembly