LIGHTNING
(
TUBE PITOT
.... •" I •,q-•- UGHr(~ COLLISION
7. • ANTENN4Α ,
EM
I 1 ' I- -
)
7-16. Typical Figure
The (SCR). rectifiers controlled silicon
selection of the ib application in their problem
for the of devices, or combination device, right
an protected. As being equipment ticular
devices semiconductor front ends, for antenna
cross-modulation introduce θ.;υ sh,'wtcorming, major
inherently noniinear transfer character- their through
light α present only Simple gas tubes utici.
front end, on the load capacitive ditional
for this suitable protection more provide
- of comnponents types For other plication.
nonlinearity where systems, contro! ciectronic
sufficient as is obtaining important as not be
protection diode - zener levels protection voltage
more suitable. be may devices
ELECTRICITY STATIC 7-9.3
precipitation control for requirements The
for htelicopters severe mcre charging are much
cargo-handling of the because aircraft for fixed-wing
acceptable be that would Potentials requirements.
V, which to 30,000 -- 20,000 aircraft fixed-wing
the vehicle of noise threshold the radio below well
to ground hazard serious shock represent α can
and from helicopters, cargo unloading sonnel
or fuels. ordnance of cause ignition bly carl

AMM 7Ω
DISCHARGE
LIGHT ( NCOLLISION
NAVIGATIO(SI AFT LIH \ANTENNA \ \ •-
,
ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELD
THIOUGH PENETRATION FIELD
COVERS PLASTIC
Points Entry Circidt Electrical Lightlng
and carried have been suggetd approaches general prinCipal
of development, including use of various degrees the to
field from clectrical the in which dischargers active par-
, is ap charge an opposite and is measured the aircraft example,
wick-type dis- passive use of the to the vehicle, plied have α
of con- and the use tips, at the blade devices charge
to the ground to the helicopter from hanging ductors
con- crew the ground vehicle before the ad- discharge
the load. tacts and thus
dis- dischargers suffer from several The active ap-
external charge in α including indicating advantages, such as
field using single-head when crosaficids electrical may
on the heli- present is actually no charge when meters low-
the pro- with the vehicle charging thereby and copter
dual using by be prevented This can device. tection
the vehicle. below and one one above meters, field
However, space-chargc shielding of the field meter
recirculating charge α from occur can head sensing
the that is acknowledged hover. It generally during than
short- of the in spite dischariers, active use of
ground when rarticularly is advisable, comnings, on
is frequent. is handling
the blade on dischargers located The passive wick -
suffer from simplicity, but of tips have the advantage per-
the required an substantial potential is fact that pos- the
do not ι.ε., they discharging, begpn before they vehicle Several
7-31