7)AMP
load Determination of the goam tooth
relatively strvg~htforward. For α first
it ius
NWt IC
,β
DPN
we:torque, ltu-in. N
number of driven gecars in mesh with Ω Μ
driver, dimensionless
For precibe calculations the pitch radius Π,,/2
be replaced the by radius to the highest point
tooth loading (HFSTL) an determined by the
contact rotio' for spur gears or by other
*Aiderations for helical and bevel gcars. These
siderations are discussed further in α
paragraph in conjunction with discussion of
metric shape factoi J.
The overload factor is included in Eqs. K.
pulsationi the torque for 4-25 to account
for roughness of the transmitted power, and
.Σ.Im..u Q VMSW-=tc; asac.. I&HAis toD ;OuK53535@ ~ result from the power source, the driven
K
the response of the elastic drive subsystemn
Because the bending stress must be Σ,
fatigue endurance limit of the material, K.
overloads for occasional used to account be
cumulative cyclic duration unless the design
is relativey low; ι.ε., less than cycles. 10'
examples of measured values are K.
2.0 first gear drive from gix-cylinder, K,, - -
rociprocaiti α&, four-stroke
horizontally opposed
sine
1.25 gear set adjacent to high K,- -
Hooke'σ joint installation
1.15Σ gear set K. adjacent to typical -
rotor drive-shaft
1.2 third-stage gearing K,, six-cyli ixi - -
reciprocating engine
1.0 turbine engine K,, speed - -
Sear drive.
The mibalignmcnt factor in the tooth K.,
stress equations take: into account the lengthwise
axial distribution on load the the loadod face of
mesh. Three primmy~ sources, which generally
ditivc, contribume to misalignment:
1. Initial misalignment due to manufacturing
curacy or dcflectdc of rotation axes due to
load, external or thermal gradient load,
2. Toeth slope deviations lead due to inaccuracy
gear manufacture

4 7,
is of Elatic 3. deflecaioas sAMUa, gear wabs and rims, Ω,
approximation and support bearings.
The generally accepted rel-ationa~shi for the mis-
~rc aligned facto& K. for spur and hdlita gears
(4-26)
δ'less, - K. - (4-27) frFor9 2F
di-esa K. , US~ for F' F .,Σ >F (4-27)
the (/)' - ' ' whore
should face -~ width of gear tooth. in. F
of single average value of effective F., face width - F.,
profile for given loading condition, in.
con- The ave.rage face width in those equations is that F.
con- width which con be considered 1.o remain in contact
subsequent under &ν fezinive tooth load where, from 4-25 Eq. ef Ω,
the geo-
(4-.29) lb Ω,' -K,,Ω, +Ω,
4-24 and
are for expressions Empirical or waveform Fm
ρ
hence is
1/2 -1ω~
(4-30) "α [- ' J in mecmber, or
-eL'J itself.
wvithin the for spur gears, and for helical gears
should not 1'
/2'~ low of
Fe K4 life itself 2 - (4-31) = F.
SomeJ
where
pitch plane misalignment (net), in./in. ε -
cycle, -lengthwise tooth stiffness constant, π: Γ
aircraft en-
κ line- incdi-istinn = enntar-τ (Re~φ fskrtnr All~
dimensionless
angle pitch, in. bas Π6 =
Z total - transverse length of lint of action.
tailin
The value of the tooth stiffness constant in Γ thewe
equations usually is 'nder 2.5 Γ 106:! :5 Ξ !10'.
applicat.-On The correct value for for "poikit-contacts" such Km
teduction as those in spiral bevel gears may be considerably less
than the values for spur or helical gears due to the
bending conformal axial curvature and curvature mismatch
or used to localize the contact pattern within the tooth
boundaries. It γ", is common practice to use. value of α
are aa- for aircraft spiral 1.1 bevel gears. This low K., -
value is particularly jusuticid for straddle mountings
inac- used in conjunction with so-called -small-cutter
gearset tooth developments". Use of cutter (and grind-wheel)
diameters equal to the mean coite distance at low
in helix angles and equal to than less ice the Λ% cone dis-
tance at high helix aigles is an example that would
4-37