AMACP 706-202
NICKEL EROSION
SHEATH
FIBERGLAS -COVERED
LOW-DENSITY CUFF
METAL SPAR
FIBERGLAS SHELL
LOW-DENSITY FOAM
Figse S-46. Typical Spar-abell Biade
4. Filler streasing. from carrying some of the shear
Joading across the blade thickaeas and from reactions
to crons section deformation
5. Shear lag effocts, in which rogions of the surface
distant from & rib tend to duck the bending load
6. Chordwisc deformation and stress from
paavare aad inertia losos on the airfoil, an well as
from skreer lag effects
7. Strvctural stabil. y — the avoidaace of buckling
8. Joint strecsing. cepocially at the Aaboard cnd of
tbe shell.
Theec possible probloms must be considered
carefully in dexign, and require judicious choice of
configurstion, filler, aud joint design.
Additioca! information on typss of propelier biade
construction, including both wood and metal blades.
may be found in ANC-9.
5-8.4.2.2 Masmfactuciag SPrecacnes ced Touling
More so than wiais mnay structuree, thoc doeign of
tigizt, strong prop-ellar tisdos bas beaa affuctsd by the
assnufacturing procones availabic. For holilow
5-72

blades, espocially, datail bladc design must reprosant
an intimatc combination of functional requiroment
and manufecturing cepability.
Monocoque bladcs are mnade by manufacturing
procedures that fall into two general categorics:
flattening and twisting tubcs into shape, and joining a
number of individuai pieces.
In the tube-flattening process, a round tube is
drawn, extruded, or reduced in some manner from
the bilet so that its wall thickress tapers as requirsd
and its perimeter is compatible with the desired air-
foil sections. The shank region is swaged down to the
proper size, and then the tube is pressed and twisted
into shape in dics. If the blade is to bc tapered, the
trailing edge of the pressod tube is trimmed and
welded.
3ome hollow blades are made from only two
pieces, one containing the shank region and one sur-
face of the bladc, the other the second surface. The
two pivces are weided togcther at the kading and
trailing edges, and a brazod fillet added to strengtnes
ihe odges. The pioces to be assembied are mnilied,
grvänd, and preas-forned into the proper thicknees
ant siape before joining. Otbes tlads have boani
reldod rom amalier segments, with both chordwise
and Jongitudinal welds.
Hollow blades with ribs are muadc cssentially the
same as the blades just deacribed. In this case, one or
more of the pieces to be welded or brazod is milled to
contain the central ribs.
The manufacture of spar-sheil bladcs varics ac-
cording to the material usod. Thcoc bizdes have bocn
produced both in all-metal configurations and in con-
figurations with stecl spars and Fiberglas shells.
Current devciopment work is demonstratine the pro-
misc of new composite materiale for the spar or the
Metal spars are manufaciured by processes similar
to thoee usod for flattenod-tube monocoque blades.
Internal and external poening with metal shof or
glass beads are usod for strength inprovenent. Tbe
reiention bearing raceways then are machinod on the
root of thc spar. Thcac raccways are intogral with the
Aq Srror popre a ra pue e soce
carefully controlled flame or induction methode.
Finally, thc finishod spar nuay be platod for corro-
sion protectiost.
Metal sbells are Tormod frou polish-ground sbeois,
which are foided sround thc Icading odge and seam-
woktod at thc trailing odge aod the tip. As with the
spars, the final shape is obtained by bot-forming.
Fiberglas sholls nornally are laid up cn metal mar-
ad Apn q so seood náas pn e Aq eoqp 'ap
ismgnagnatod fabrics. Some Fibergias sheils