V Π" 706-202
may be acceptable. the unbalanced forces can in- may be higher than that of α comparable super-
crease rapidly as ι increases above with the possi- critical installation. The ι:,anufacturing cost fot the 9,
bility This of resultant damage. situation can ef- short shafts may not be much different than the cost
fectively long reduce the critical spead margin to an unac- of α single shaft, while the number, an-' hence
The ceptably low level. inference is that simply by cost, of machined parts probably will higher for be
shaft the balancing the diive an acceptable critical speed subcritical installation.
easily margin can be realized. However, the ,ast of Α single span of the subcritical system consists of α
bhat dynamically balancing the and/or shaft as- drive shaft tube with end fittings, drive adap'cr,
sembly assembly must be included in the trade-off, together hanger with bearing. splined adapter, and
α with careful assessment of the contributions of the coupling. Α typical example is shown in Fig. 4-37.
α end conditions and/or mounting compliance to the Design of the drive shaft requires determination of
vibration/rotation characteristic, the shaft cross section necessary to accept safely the
existing The majority of drive system applications steady and transient loads stipulated in tic pertinent
lowest use subcritical shafting, for which the value of design specifivation, and of α shaft length that will
Requirements > for balancing can be met with operate safely within the critical speed limitations. It,, V,.
least ordinary balancing techniques and equipment; rela- An efficient design generally consists of the
tively short shafts minimize production and logistic number of spans with acceptable critical speed
problems; and ballistic tolerance design paramcters margins and torsional buckling strength. Large dia-
generally arc known. On the other hand the cost of α sub- meter thin-walled tubes, of nonferrous
critical shaft greaw installation with seeral separate spans metals; α lubricated bearing sealed on one side
BEARING SEAL) (1 BOLTED JOINT
ADAPTER TUBULAR SHAFT
COUPLING FLEXIBLE GES
SHAFT HANGER NUT //
ASSEMBLY aHANGER _ 3llf ADAPTER
Σ......MOUNTING BOLTS
TUBULAR SHAFT TAIL BOOM STRUCTURE
\ Filme 4-37. Typical batrilgl Haiser AMedy -- Sedicfical Shaft Ase-mmy
\ 4-75