number arf taminates reduces ihe angular misslign-
ment capability of the particular design. An ad-
ditional relationship exicts betweer the nurnber of at-
tachment points and the torque capacity. and mis-
alignment cspability. Α four-point attachment (two-
bolt shaft adaptes) provides the maximum misalign-
ment capability and also is the least expersive to
Manufacture. Thc flerible disk is capeble of smali
axial dutiections, and where predicted axial motions
are Icw, *his coupling serves well. No lubricetion is
requirso.
Tnomas couplings often are used in serics with α
shding involute spline to eccomincuate vaciations in
initial shaft assembly length due to accumulation of
manufecturing tolerancer. Howvever, wixen axial de-
faction occurs under operating tosquc, the slip re-
siscance of the spiine is so great that appreciable axial
forcc will be spplicd to the disk laminates. For splines
of θ is type the breakaway slip force Fü rarcly is lcss
thian:
$bs = 0.4 Q/Dp.16
where
= torque, Ib-in.
π, = pitch ciameter, in.
In σóme spccial cases where certain dry φüμ lubri-
cations are applied to the splines (Ref. 93) break-
away forces of half this value may be realized.
2. Flexible diapt om (Bendix tyre) couplings.
This coupling (.ec Fig. 4-38) λ:gs bas ased on the
OH-6 hel:copter. This type .: couplirg is generally
capable of α maximum &ragular misalignmeat of
abont ι deg per diaphragm pair, but very little axial
dafectior capability and therefore naust be used in
series wirh α siiding spi:ne. Recirculating daii splines
gererally are pieferved for minimunn breakaway slip
force F.. Aiss, the diaphragm stack is ve:υ sensitive
to fatigue failure due to osciliatory axial deflections
σ:ace θ.: weakest nember of ihe stack will often oil-
ca. ar.δ provice rauriy all of the axial deflection.
Under suck conditions it may de necessary to pro-
vide α stif-aligning monoball (or similar type) bearing
at the inendec fiexure center of the stack :o transter
aial loads into the supporting adapter and to force
the ball spline to move. Alttough thcoretically it is
Possiblc τ obtain very low Dreakaway slip forces
wish the dall sprine, practical considerations with re-
spect to tainin:tm fength of the bail track grooves,
μ'mbers of balls. and seel provisions usually limi:
these forces to & minimum of
Fb. = 0.15 C/Δ, Ib
259 γ ρ

WELO JOINTS
FLEXIBLE DIAPHRAGN
SELF-ALIGNING MONOBALL
DRIVE SHAFT
(4-66)
DRIVE FLANGF.
Figure 4-38. FicxBie Diapbragas Cocpliag
All too often, the vibratory forces due to imbalance
and roior vibrations lead to false brinelling of the ball
track grooves, which resuits in turn in much higher
axisl forces wiih increasing service time.
Although the fiexible diaphragm elemeuts need no
lubrication, the splines and the monoball oc-
casionally require lubrication
3 Axial:υ loadcd straight eiement flexible
coupling (Bossler coupling). This coupling (Fig. 4-39)
requires no lubrication and has the abiity to accom-
moda.ε combined axial motion, misalignment, and
torque. Α series stack of warped rectangular plates
with α certrally located rectangular cutout leaving
siender sides characterizes the coupling. Opposed
corners of these plates are boited to adjacent elements
and to end fittings or adapters. Design characteristics
of this coupling arc defined in Ref. 111.
Applications to date havs becn Icrgely experi-
mental with some flight time accumulated on the
Hv-2 nvlicopter (Ref. 112) and UH-1 helicopter. Tic
engular μ isal.gament capability appears to be sbout
0.5 deg per plate element. However, an increese in the
(467) nu.nber of ε'ensents usod results irn & reductiou in first
4-77