AMCP 206-302
3 high retained sustenite) caso carburizod Α MS 6265
operrxing in the aame lubricant (Ref. 71).
The reduction in. Τ. with an increusc in E, is due to
che complex intaraction of V, and Vp. For constant
Vr. Τ. falls sharply and then leveis off as V. is
incrcezod, while ' increases axponentially with Vr
wion F is hald constant. Bocause the ratio V./V, is
constant for α given gear design, thesc opposite ef-
fects tend to cancel sach other over common ranges
of gear oparating spceds and loads, producing α rela-
tively constant value of Τ..
When actual friction data for ε given lubricant-
metal combination are not available, thc trends
shown in Fig. 4-24 (Ref. 71) are heipful in design
review and evaluation.
From α practical viewpoint, when overpower tests
show that scoring risk is marginal, the problem may
tions ae:
3. Improving the run-in cycle by u.:.:γ longer runs
at increased load and reduced spced to reiue the
opcrating surface finishes
2. Reducing the manufactured surface roughness
through better grinding practice or the use of gear
tooth honing where possiblc
3. Reducing the value of Τ, through incrcased
lubricant flow or cooler lubricant sipply.
When such mcasures prove inadequate, the lubricant
and the metallurgical microstructure should bc
evaluated. If neither can be improved, it may be
possible to improve the involute modification or pro-
file and the tooth spacing error.
_INLET OIL TEMP. - 140-F AMS 660 DISXS (4.0 μ. 01α )
OMA.-708. OIL MIL-Λ-23695Α OIL
V, + V, 5250 11 8ν - SAE Δ STRAIGHT MINERAL O:Λ
FALUME LIAD. * 2000
1000
1500 2000 2500 3000
V, - v, R
Flgure 4-24. Scuflag Load vs Ixbricant —
Unaynchronized Diacs
444

4-2.2.1.2.3 Piting Fallure
There are severa! pitting failure modes that in their
advancad states produce the sarne end result: exten-
sive spalling and tooth fracture. Only three of these
modcs are relevant to the type of gcaring usod in
modern helicopter drive subsystems. They may be
classified as casc failure, classic or pitch-line fatigue,
and wcar-initiated failure.
4-2.2.1.2.3.1 Caxe Failure
This mode results simply from inadequate depth of
case to support the operating load. It may be avoidod
by adjustment of either unit load or casc depth to ob-
tain α ratio of subsurface shear stress to shcar yield
strength in excess of α particular critical valuc. Ref.
79 recommends that α value of 0.55 for this ratio not
be cxcecded; however, for high-quality belicopier
E caring transient operations at values between 0.55
and 1.0 should not resuit in failurc. Extendod opera-
tion above the critical ratio will cause subsurface
cracks to occur near or in the case-core transition
area as α result of the repetitive subsurface shear .
stressing. These subsurface cracks soon spread to the
tooth profile surface and generafiy resuit in numerous
brittle longitudinal fractures in the general area of the
single-tooth contact zone. Total mutilation of the
tooth profile then results from only α few additional
cycles of load application.
The variation of subsurface shear stress with depth
may be calculated in α straightforward manner. The
magnitude of the subsurface shear for α given depth is
α function of Σ. and the Hertzian contact band
semiwidth β. The calculation should be made for the
lowest point of single tooth contact (LPSTC) on the
pinion involute surface (unlees the gear momber is
considerably weaker) becausc this produces the
maximum value of Σ.. Σ. may be calculated in
accordance with the methods shown in par. 4-
2.2.1.2.3.2. The effective tootn load Ω,' and the radii
of curvature should be adjusied for the LPSTC. The
Hertzian semiwidth & is relatod to Σ. in the following
manner:
β = (2.50× 10-)( уз ј σ. in. (47)
where , and ρ. are, as defined pre-jously, the radius
of curvéture of the pinion and gear tooth, respective-
3503 Iy.
Table 4-5 next should bc usa3 to catc & late values of
shear stress Σ, at 12 depths. These values then may be
plotted along with the allowable σ:ress as shown in
Fig. 4-25. The allowablc values shown are 55% of the