706-202 AMGP
N
valve would cause large hydraulic forces. Speed other propeller designs incorporate an independent
system The complete hydraulic system. hydraulic unless adversely be affected will acnsing-accuracy
α following basic componenti: α sump, and flyweight contains the correspondingly large speed-set spring
v&Ive, α relief valve, the such pump, α filter with α bypass To avoid the weigbt and size of forces are used.
α design, α servo-type governor may be used. In this control valve, and the pitch change actuator. Sche-
hydraulic piston is α linear the actuator α small matically, device positions the speed-sensing design,
the linear piston with α meohanical device to convert only the flow to α servo pilot valve that controls
piston, which, in turn, positions α servo valve that motion to rotary motion of the blade. The maximum
may be 1200 valve setting) pressure (relief valve is operating Because the pilot the main oil flow. meters
α system α simple systcm or up to 3000 psi for forces, ι; and the psi for isolated from strong hydraulic
is critical. weight where sensitive. and light be made can speed-sensor
Α schematic diagram of the complete control and
54.3.2.1.2 Beta Contr" hydraulic system for α double-acting governor is
With beta control, the input to the propeller con- shown in Fig. 5-42.
trol is α signal calling for α desired blade angle. In re-
cent configurations, the signal is transferred me- Auxiliary Fuidoam 5-8.3.2.3
chanically to the rotating components, where it
positions α distributor valve spool. The deeve of this
control, some propellers provide various auxiliary
valve is positioned mechanically α α function of functions. Two of these - feathering and pitch lock
blade sngle and, if there is α disparity between desired
and actual blade angle, the distributor valve directs are safety items. to α arc. feathered by turning their blades Propellers
high-pressure oil to the appupnate side of the pitch 90-deg blade angle - ι.ε., edgewise to the relative
change actuator. When the blades change pitch, the oi- propeller disabled α bring to order in - wind
valve slekxc moves as well, until the desired β!ade τ .iiji α nuiin λ liop .ui
angle is reached and the valve is closed. The pitch lock acts to prevent further decrease in
54.3.21 Hydraulic System pitch travel when normal angle control blade is lost
Some propeller control systems usc engine or gear- or preset maximum α rotational speed is exceeded.
of hydraulic pressure ,α loss Without this feature, an extra in pressure by oil, boosted case lubricating
the blades to drop to low pitch in flight, or oil from the aircraft hydraulic system. To could allow pump,
minimize contamination and improve reliability, causing α dangerous windmilling ovcrspeed.
DESI•ED RPM
SIGNAL
DECREASE
BLADE
PITCH ISP MOMENTSPEED
RPM SRING SET - / -
YOKE &
0. TRNINfDOUBLE-ACTINGI -~
GOVERNOR I I ROTATING
_ FLYWEIGHTS IDECREASi_
E TRANSFER BEARING PITCH FILTER AND
Λ___ VALVE .BYPASS DECREASEI
I I NUr PITCH
_Α ACTUATOR
PTHCHANGEWAEW SR6
UATOR ACT I__ ____E___
5-42. Fhgue Control Prpodeler Sebematk System
5-67