caused by amplification (α phenomenon cxperimced design stage. Mitarials, tooling, labor, quality con-
Yheu operating near resonance). Vibration levels at trol, and facility costs arc irvolved. Mak--or-buy do.
crew the pilot and are positions oftzn excessive (un- cisions may influence detail design of components.
example, comfortable in and distracting) 4",- to poor airframe For α fairing might be manufactured
design; rotor vibmr.ion has been amplified by struc- hou&χ if molded from Fibglasu; but if pressed from
turl elements whose natural frequency is too close be to aluminum, it might have to developed outside. In
to the operating frequencics or multiples thereof. atso such an instance, weight, stiffness, etc., must be
cause Vibration structural considered of components can when the method ef manufacture is being
ois- audible noise or pilot selected. fatigue. In addition to crew cost Table Il-I indicates the impact of
comfort, vibration can cause alternatives. structural fatigue and various detail design
Each π1pare possible catastrophic failure. manufacturer can mch α table dofing
Ruggedness design is α quality that update prevents denting or preliminary design and it during detail
puncturing of structure by rotor-induced debris, σ using specific cost data. The tabl α particilarly
ground handling, erosion, useful or brush. It is difficult to design tool if it is itated on α cost-per-air.
prescribe physical characteristics that would prevent frame-pound basis.
these types of damage. Flight testing of srictures α prototype consist Operating costs for airframe of
should include simulated replaomat operational conditions so repair, maintenance, and parts costs.
that ruggedness can checked. These tests be will show The design objectve should be α maintenance-free
those areas that must be strengthened, service resulting in the life life equal to the anticipated of the heli-
minimum weight increment to obtain the required copter.
capability.
11-2.6 MATERIALS
In 11-2Α FATIGUE SENSITIViTY selection preliminary design, material has been
compi-ited. tatýι-ally iigbweighi deigns may be con- ca- Α most important detail design utiu.
tigue-sensitive. Attention must be paid to the detai'σ sideration is material verification. Α wide variety of
of the airframe structure to prevent fatigue sensi- ferrous metals, nonferrous metals, and nonmetallic
tivity. For example, designers would like to eli- materials is available. Characteristics of thise metals
minate the clips attaching the stringers to frames in and materials are described in Chapter 2. Addi-
the fuselage, thus saving both weight and cost. How- 11-2 tionally, Table charac- summarizes materials,
ever, experience has shown that skin and bulkhead teristics, and their uses in helicopter airframe con-
flange cracks occur when the clips ame omitted. struction.
Α highly loaded airframe fitting may have suf-
ficient static strength because 11-2.7 α high heat treatment is SURVIVAI1LITY
provided, be but, as α result, the maturial may notch- The survivability characteristics of an Army heli-
sensitive and prone to fatigue failure. copter desi2ν include:
Orain orientatio, in highly loaded fittings is im- I. ' Detectability -
portant. The most is efficient structural design ob- 2. Vulnerability to enemy ballistic threats
tained by orienting the longitudinal grain in the di Crauhwor. hiness. 3.
rection of the primary load. Α fitting may be fatigue- Detection methods to be considered are radar, in-
sensitive if the transverse grain is oriented in the frared In (IR) radiation, acoustics, and visual. the
prinwtry load direction. design of the airframe structure, the greatest con-
1 . Ctribution to roduciig the detectability can be made by
11.5 COST reducing the radar cross-section of the holicopter
In the design of the airframe, three cost areas fuselage. The techniques available include the use of
nonreflective materials and/or to manu- radar-transparent cost to develop, cost should be considered:
Reflectivity of the as- key coatings. characteristics facture, and cost to operate.
The cost of development includes that of design, pects of the helicopter also may be reduced, at least
Ai" selected development new methods, :φ and testing rcquired to for radar frequencies, by careful attention to
prove the design. Dsvelopment testing is α very im- the shape of the target presented to the transmitted
portant design tool. Α number of design alternatives beam.
can tested under identical conditions be to find the The specific ballistic threats to which the helicopter
best design. The coats involved may be high, par- will be exposed and the desired levels of protection
ticularly where fatigue testing is involved. will be stated by the helicopter system specification.
Manufacturuig costs must be estimatc'! during the The use of armor materials to defeat ballistic threats
11-2