3-4.3.σ Pea8 diuepine
If icflight fuel-dumping is required for rapid reduc-
tion of helicopier groes waigint, the dosctanrgod fucl
shal! not impirge upog or re-eaie. the bclicoptcr, or
be diachargud into citiber an ares of static clectricity
discharge or the eagine cxhnust plunbe. Unicxs the
fuut tanks can provide = sigaificant heed for gravity
dumping. pumps aball be asod to achieve tiec desired
dumping rale. The tank vont linc capacitizs must be
revisuud so provent fuel cell collupac waile dumping.
3-4.2.σ Engine Fesd Syoton
The fead system, wheseby fuel is delivered to the
engine(σ). sbell be denigned in accordance with Μ1Λ-
F-38363. In gzaeral, fucl mus be avsilablc on an ur-
interruptod bans without costinuous atiention of thc
crew, The ferd sysiem must allow normal perfor-
mance of the engine(τ) sndet afl attitudes norenal for
ihe helicopter on the ground, ausd in both steady and
maneuver fighs as ali altitudes up lo and including
the service ceiling.
Typicaily. the foced fued syscm consists of α main
tank or tanks fooding directiy to the enginc(σ) and
uch tramsfer tarks es ere sconssury te mect the fucl
capacity requirameais of the helicopier within the
waght and space limitations of the configuration. On
muitiengine bekicopters α separate. independert.
main tznk and feed systen shall bc provided for cacn
engine. These indcpendent systems also must be so
designed that fucl from any tank can be fed to any or
sli engines.
Two independent and isolsted methods shali be
provided to move fuel out of cach tank, except only
one method nced be provided for jestisonable exter-
nai tanks. Each method of moving the fuel shall meet
the Row fequiremenis for the paiticuiet tank under
sil required engine and helicopter operating con-
ditions (altitude and attitude, including maneuvers).
Fuel shall be provided to the engine at conditions
spocified in the engine specification. The suction feed
capability shall bc determined for fuel temperatures
spocifed in MIL-F-38363 or as specified by the pro-
curing sctivity.
When thc system includes transfer tank(σ) as well
as main tank(σ), the normal sequencing of intertank
feed must maintain the CG of the fuel system within
acceptable limits throughout the range of fuci loads
from full to empty at all required flight conditions.
To insure that the particle 3izes of contaminants in
the fuei do not excecd the limits given in MlL-E-
5007, it ms.: be necessary for the engine fecd
syetem(σ) to include filters os strainers. If so, the
strainers shail be in accordance with MIL-Σ-8710 and
the installation shalt bc in accordance with MIL.F.
38363.

Additional requiremcats and guidclines applicablc
to the design aad instalßation of food sysicms that will
be capucod to cnemy pround fire and for which self.
sealing tanks are raguirod aiso are given by Mil.-F.
38363.
3-4.2.7 Fed Dralne
The fuel aobayslore dosiges abunif inciude aclnqunie
38363. Sufticicost drsies ere roquired so tinat sll iow
points of tihe sysiam caa be drained. Α.it sacolle
biadder tank cavitios, dry bays, and pockois acod trape
in the structure wibere fuet may collect stall be
drained to the exierior of the belicopicr. Drain balss
or draie tabas sbadt be 0.3σ in. dipmeter micionton
caoept the drains for structure surrounding self-
accling zanks chalf be 0.50 in. dinmeter minimuam.
Fuci draias stall not be interconnectad wich draia
lines carrying otber biquids. The installation of fued
drains shall be such that under no opereting condi-
tion will drainage re-cnser tibe belicopter or coae in
contact with eitber thr engine exhaist gas wake or
whoel brakes. In thcae isolatod caaca wbca the
passage oi α juci iine tivrougin ine occupioi puriou of
nse pe σ
lisse within ühe occupiod aren shelf be shrouded aad
drained.
3-4. ?.8 Coutreis and Inatrementntion
The controls for the fuel system shall be grouped in
the cockpit in α functional manner. Α simplified dia-
gram of the fuel system shull be inscribed on the pan-
el so she function of each switch is indicated clearly.
As α minimum, presentation of thc following per-
formance data for the fuel system shall be provided in
the cockpit:
1. Fuel quantity, esch main tank and total
2. Low fuel-level warning for cach main tank
3. Bypass warning for each fuel filter
4. Low fuel-inict pressure warning for each engine
5. indicator lights for clectrically operated fuel
shutoff vaives.
As additional auxiliary fuel systems are added, ap-
propriate controls and instrumentation shal! be pro-
vided.
34.3 TESIING
Substantrating thc capability of the fuel system to
fulfill its functionai requirenents during all phases of
aircraft operation is requircs by MIL-F-38363. Sucls
verification sha!? occur in thrce phases:
1. Component tesing
2. Fuel system simulstor testing
3. Ground and flight testing.
3-13