AMCP 706-202
APU during grouns checkout. Central system com-
ponents include:
1. System manifold, a package containing system
fiiters, pressure transmitters (with associated snubber
and fuse), system relief valves, ground test connec-
tions, snd return line check valves
2. System accumulator, α gas-β'echarged, piston
unit with associated servicing valve and pressure gage
3. System reservoir, including return and pump
suction line fittings, bleed and fill provisions, over-
board vent, and level indicator. The reservoir also in-
corporates reservoir level-scnsing. with associated
subsystem isolation valves.
9-2.1.2 Flight Control Suksysterns
A typical fight control subsystem consists of (1) s
boost-actuating system, (2) a stability augmentation
system (SAS), and (3) a stick boost hydraulic system.
The pilot's control movements, transmitted through
a sysiem of bell cranks, rods, and levers, are mixed to
provide the correct lateral, cyclic, and pitch motions
through hydraulically powered actuatoss as shown in
Fig. 9-2. If dual actuators are used, cach half of the
act'sator is powered by a separate system.
A typical du; } reversed SAS is jiiustrated in F.g. 9-
3. The SAS actuator inputs to tr.e boost actuators
affect the movemeni of the rolor blades without feed-
back forces to the pilot controls. The SAS actuators
must be capablc of being engaged or disengaged by
the pilot, and musi incorporate an automatic lockout
feature that oper:tes in the event of hydraulic power
failure.
а1,“л s~..
т
Figare 9-2. Dual System Hyd:sulic-powered
Flight Control Actuntors
SCLEAC A!
PRLAE RECLIER
9IURN
dan$ !rSTEe ?
Figurr 9-3. Dual-powered Stabiliy
Augncetation Sysica
¢-2

т
2
The stick boost system provides the pilot with low-
force sick movement capability. As shown in Fig.-9-
4, an actuator is provided in each axis to overcome
friction and inertia loads. The:e actuators function to
react inputs from the SAS so chat they cannoi bc felt
through the pilot controls.
9-2.2 UTILITY HYDRAULIC SYSTEMS
The uility system may be powered in cesentially
the came manner as is the flight control system, using
accessory gearbox-drivan pumps when the rotor ic
turning or the APU for ground operation. Tke cen-
tral portion of the system will contain basically the
same components as docs the fight control systern. if
system demand during peak load phases is relatively
high, additional pumps in parallel may te necessary.
To minimize the weight and size of subsystem Crcuits
that do not have high pressure and fow require-
ments. pressure reducers should be considered.
9-2.2.1 Engine-starting Subsysiems
There are two basic types of hydraulic enginc-
staring systems. One uses a limited amount of stored
encrgy that is available in an accumulator, while the
Diber considers the maximum power ouipui availabic
from an auxiliary power supply.
Because energy is limitcd in the first type of system,
the design goal is to complete the start in the shortest
possible time. As shown in Fig. 9-5, enginc starting is
RETURN
SUPPL SYSTEMI
DUAL ACTUATOR
TYCAL
COLLECTIVE Y48 Р!Ск ROLL
RETURA SUPPLY SYS1EN?
Figure 9-4. Dual-powered Stick Boost
Hydraulic System
CAS
FLut ACCUMULATOR
:ge i RECrAhGIM VALVE
START VALVE
TARNNE
YORAULO. STARYEN
PE SERVOR
Figwe 9-5. Hydroulic Sirting:
Eners gy-Homiied System