craft, it constitutes a major portion of the
walls. For window applications, the stretched,
fled acrylic sheet is preferred, per MIL-P-25690.
nmodified has material slightly higher heat resistance
than does heat-resistant polymethylmethacrylatc,
along with better resistance to crazing and solvents.
W-I100% When stretched to biaxially or multiaxially.
acrylic sheets develop increased resistance to
higher impact strength, and improved rcsistance
crack propagation - without detrimental
upon their other properties except for reduced
sion rFsistance and laminar tensile and
strengths. The sheets may be formed thermally to
Laminated fcrent contours. plastic glazing materials
are made by bonding two or more layers of acrylic
polyester plagtic sheet to a soft plastic interlayer
means of an adhesive. This process greatly improves
the impact and structural strengths of the
arc defined glazing materials Laminated plastic
MIL-1N5374.
Differing thermal expansion rates of
mmieriais, and metal attachment edge materials,
frames present one of the major probicms iM
of glazing, For all types of window-glazing. design
wrap is used in order to minimize the propaga- - edge
at tion of stresses originating in cracks and chips
layers or more is two wrap preferred The edges.
,,oven from twisted polyester (Dacron) fabric,
and impitgnated and bonded in ?lace with epoxy
on the overlaps sufficiently resin. Th wrap
and extends sufficiently beyond the edges material
absorb the stresses of aitachment closure and at
time distribute the load uniformly across same "o
window. There are many closure designs, but the
be fcrred enclosure will designed so as to hold
ir. glaze securely in a sliding grip such a manner
allow for reciprocal longitudinal motion - as
glaze expands and contracts while always -
This may be load endwise. a comprehensive
by placing a compressible, neoprene-imprcgnated
tube at the bottom of the closure channel.
closure will be attached rigidly to the airframe.
the closure and the contacting areas between
wrap will be sealed with a flexible sealant, prefe-rably
one made of silicone,
COMPOSITE STRUCTURES 24
2-4,1 FIBERGLAS LAMINA'TES
* Of all the fibers available for the rcinforcement
plastics, glass is used by far the most widely. Of
various glass compositions, only two are important
"aircraft construction: and glass. "E" "S" "'E'
used extensivily; glass "S" provides greater ".

A CF 706.a01 S"
cx- fuselage strength and modulus, but is considerably more
modi- pensive.
The The major advantages of glass-reinforced plastic
(GRP) over isotropic structural mate•ials (primary
metalsý include:
I. Formability and versatility. Large complex
parts and very short production runs are practical.
crazing, Because there are few limitations on size, shape, and
In to number of parts, design freedom is maximized. ad-
desired effects dition, the reinforcement can be oriented as in
abra- order to increase properties ir. specific directions.
shear 2. Chemical stability. GRP is resistant to most
dif- chemicals, and does not rust or corrode.
3. Toughness. Good impact resistance is a feature
or of GRF.
by 4. Strength-to-weight ratio. Specific strength of
GRP is very high. For example. unidirectional GRP
material, has a specific strength about five times that of the
aluminum alloys. used steel and in commonly
5. Insulation. GRP is a good thermal and elec-
glazing trical insulator, and therefore, wiil transmit radar and
waves. air- radio
n he . Wk ......... , ..... .atched .. r I
readily and effectively. an
. On the other hand, GRP has certain disadan-
tages the compared to other construction materials,
namely: of
proper- Variations in material Nonuniformity. I. yarns
ties within a part and from part to part are inherent in
fabrication techniques. most of the glaze
is relatively to 2. Low modulus. Stiffness of GRP
the low.
are rates low in . 3. Slow fabrication. Production the
pre- comparison with most metal-formirg operations. ,
mnostudan'tgeou•s is the Thus, coiitiUctmon GRP ar,
as to parts with complex shapes that would be difficult to
the form from metal, foe parts with anisotropic strength
applying requirements, or in applications where the con-
of resistance dent or corrosion ductivity or poor achieved
metals present a probl'm.
The Sonic typical GRP applications in helicopter con-
'tad struction arc in canopies, covers, shrouds (for The
dent resistance); rotor edge formability, specific strength,
blades (for formability, anisotropic strength, and
stiffness)- control surfaces (for anisotropic proper-
ties, dent resistance, repairability); and antenna
housings (for radio frequency transparency, forma- .
bility). It is conceivable that an entire helicopter air-
framc can constructed from GRP, as has been be
of done o, several smal, fixed-wing aircraft.
the 2-4.1.1 Design Colsiderations
for in Design rules and procedui ,. reinforced plastics
glass is do not differ markedly from those for metals. Stress
tensile st:ain curves, however, are similar to those for wood
2-11