level, protection The type. MIL-Τ-27422. dance with
by the specification be ap- and class as defined shall
I (ε.γ.. Type for self- to the application propriate
tank con- sealing. Type II for nonself-sealing). The
comply figuration and installation shall with Μ IL-F-
38363 and MIL-Τ-27422. These specifications con-
tain the requirements for liquid-tight structure sur-
rounding self-sealing tanks and the installation of
backing boards to protect flexible self-sealing tanks.
contain expan- each tank To prevent overflow shall
less sion space equal to no than 3% of the total fuel
volume of the tank when the helicopter is in α normal
ground attitude. Gravity filler openings be so shall
located that all tanks can be filled without overfilling
into the expansion space. For pressure refueling
systems the level shutoff valve prevent filling of shall
the expansion space. Each filler opening cap be shall
be in accordance with MIL-C-38373. All tanks shall
provided with α low-point drain for fuel sampling
and defueling purposes.
External fuel can be contained in tanks complying
with MIL-Τ-7378 or MIL-Τ-18847. The installed
location should permit service personnel standing on
the ground to inspect visually and service the tanks.
)
Inflight jettisoning should not affect the helicopter
adversely. To minimize combat turnaround time, all
external tanks should be readily removable and
replaceable without helicopter disassembly.
3-4.2.2 Fuel Tank Vents
atmosphere to'the be vented fuel tank Each shall
with compatible capabilities are whose lines :hrough
without pro- the helicopter, of performance the
the helicopter to detrimental pressures tank ducing
or to the tank. structure
the vent- required, is system refueling α pressure If
.o be sufficieni also of each tank ing capacity shall
flow, without maximum rate of fuel discharge the ,ξ-
that the refueling pressure in the event cessive tank
Traps in an open position. valves fail shutoff system
be should subsystem and the be avoided, must
amphibious if afloat helicopter the with operable
used to If vent valves are are required. operations
.hall, prevent spillage, they as required by MIL-STD-
1290. close when the helicopter is in α position of
extreme attitude. The vent lines may be designed to
prevent spillage without valves by traversing three
6 design details. for vent line etc. See Ref. directions,
3-4.23 Fuel Gaging
In accordance with MIL-F-38363. α fuel-gaging
MIL-Γ-26988 system that meets the requirements of
It be installed in accordance be provided. shall shall
indication of total fuel System with MIL-Γ-7940.

sli tank in each main of the quantity and quantity
Design fuel continuous. of the gaging system and be
gaging system puncture cell interface must preclude
of the fuel cell during crash conditions.
Each main tank shall contain α device independent
of the fuel gaging system to provide α low-fuel warn-
ing. The quantity of fuel remaining at the moment of
be actuation of the low-fuel warning must suiTicint
to allow the engine to operate for 0.5 hr at maxi-
specified. unless otherwise mum-range power
u 342.4 Refuellg ai
The refuel/defuel features for any given fuel sub-
system be specified by the procuring activity. shall
shall However. the design criteria for such features be
in accordance with MIL-F-38363.
All helicopters be capable of being refteled on shall
the ground, using α gravity refueling system. without
external power being applied. Unless the tar.Ks are
be too small for the rate to practical. or the pro-
curing activity has specified another .- ate. the fuel
system be capable of being refeled, at α con- shall
tinuous rate of 200 gpm without any operations other
than removing the filler cap and connecting the
fueling nozzle bonding plug being required. During
the tank topping portion of the refueling, the flow
rate may be less than 200 gpm.
If the internal fuel capacity is 600 gal or more. α
pressure refueling system be required (MIL-F- shall
38363). In this case, it be possible to refuel all shall
lines being connection, the fuel α single from tanks
theoreti- tanks in all level fuel the to allow as such
On the simultaneously. the full position to reach cally
it that be such must design subsystem hand, the other
or to any individual tank to fill selectively is possible
of shutoff Operation tank. any given filling avoid
depend must not system, plus the precheck valves,
external power. To prevent excessive the use of upon
system, shutoff pressure within the refueling surge
or appropriate may It •ρ.wtrolled, closure time valve
sys- Additional incorporated. valves relief pressure
MIL-F-38363. in given are requirements tern
using the be possible Defueling of tanks shall
pressure refueling system when installed. When the
defueling adapter (MIL-Α-25896) is not usted also for
refueling, positive means, such as α check valve, shall
be installed to prevent refueling through the adapter.
illustrated in system is pressure refueling Α typical
Fig. 3-5.
shall Α sump be provided in that portion of each
fuel tank which is lowest when the helicopter is in the
normal ground attitude. Α drain valve for fuel
sediment watersh.ll for removal of and sampling and
each tank sump (MIL-F-38363). provided in he
3.11