AMCP 706-202
NOMINAL COMPOSITIONOYCLIASS
TYPE SiO., Α1 0 MgO0 CiD BD GeD 2 3 3
54.3 E-~GLASS 15.2 4.1 7. 8.0
-
Σ AND Σ-2-GLASS 64.3 24.8 10.3
- - -
62.0 19.0 1-- 9.69.4 970-Σ-GLASS
is directly Mlilitarý Specification on high-modulus woven forin, which produced from rayon tape. Α
fabric the cost of high-modsulus. graphite fiber at α fraction of preprcg is MIL-Γ-83410.
used the of graphite. Hlowever, these products. primarily for Among most serious disadvantages graphite
insulation and ablation. have no coinposites -high-tempercr-mure are poor abrasion and impact resistance.
applications hiss. helicopter known in construction. 1 surface protection frequently is necessary. Allso
*High-modulus of this material until graphite fibers are produc:ed in α impeding the exploitation -cr%
three- or Foor-step heating process. During final recently has been its low interlaminar shear tme strozngth
step. graphitization, the fibers are held in tension, due to poor resin-fiber bonding. However, surface
orilentation of thereby imparting high α degree to the treatment% have been developed that result in %hear
U Σ graphite crystals. Material developed in the usecs strengths above psi. 10.000
and hasq ra!vyQn fibers an irre~ular shape) trpopcorn
in 2-4.3.2 3~=. cros sctin. Matti ial developed Engiand pyro- ι, R hiu,
lyzed from α polyacrylonitrile (PAN) precursor While all of the resins discussed in par. 2-4.1 have
having α circular cross section. In either case, the been used ir filament winding, epoxies are used al- ζ
average filament diameter is 0.0003 in. most exclusively for aircraft applications at normal
The Brilish PAN material is made in untwisted operating temperatures. Where nonwovcn, high-per-
tows of filaments, 10,J00 and is available in con- formance reinforcement is ustd, the bcst available
lengths. The tinuctis rayon-derived, high-modulus resin system also should be chosen since the dif-
graphite used in the U Σ is made in continuous ference in resin cost represents α very small pcrcen-
leng~ths from 2-ply yarns having 720 filaments per ply tage of the total part cost. Phenolic and polyimide
and 1.5 or 4 twists per in., depending upon θ~ε manu- resins are used only where very-high-temiperature
facturcr. The greatest development activity in high- operation is specified.
promanc. graphite. ie σ λ fI'-,su~ε uponi Dupimtn fl
24.3.3 Manufacturing Processes cts filaments, can formed around radii it be the small
*sinall as in., 0.05 α major advantage over boron fiber. Structures of nonwoven reinforced plastics ma) bc
by It also is expected that the greatest potential for cost formed filament winding, tape wrapping. auto-
reduction and product improvement lies with matic tape layup, or hand layup. Filament winding
graphite. Evidence of both was displayed recently in can performed with glass rovings. gr;aphite yarns. he
Ξ 75 the comi.:etrcial announcement of α 1IV psi and boron singlk filaments. This process is practi-
modulus fiber at $400 per and α 30 Ξ psi cab-le 10, for 1β and tanks with high hoop stresses. %cylinders
fiber at per SCO lb. Laboratory quantities of however, it is limited to hollow structures with con-
- -modulus 100 ξ 106 psi modulus fiber have betri produced. vex surfaces. Normally, filament winding is ac-
part Because as new products and new manufacturers fre- complished by rotating the on its axis on α
enter the the field, data ini Table include 2-8 lathe. Parts also have (luently been wou-id revolving the by
only those products with which α significant amount spool of reinforcemeni around the fixed pail.
of experience exists. also. is (ieneral~υ, prepreg is used, but wet winding K-
fiber can pr,-duced be in the Γ(raphite same variety practiced. In the latter case, the reinforcement travels
*
of forms as can glass Fiber. Thus, in addition to yarn through α bath of high-viscosity (at ambient temn-
and to%, fabric, mat, and chapped fiber can be sup- perature) resin system that is healed in order to lower
plied. As with boron, however, the most practicable the viscosity for efficient wetting of the reinforce-
is unidirectional prepreg ment. When the form for most applications impregnated reinforcement is coolet'
ζ 2-19