706-202 AMCP
of the the spherical surface force upon frictional PAPLIEO LO•Α) AAIAL
bearing. Rod end motion, in the presence of frictional
forces, induces pitch link bending moments. If the .. DE end arc material, `' rod and the bearing of different dif- IKLT Of
fcrential expansion due to temperature changes will •'mwc._.Mi4 χ rowi -
alter the frictional moments. The β-nding stresses I AXIAL LGAES Α evaluated be and should significant be may result that
"- loads. primary the as time same the at
Π also will result from I:nk bending moment pitch Α
of the acting upon the weight the centrifugal force
pitch link. This inertia force will produce α trans- Figure 6-10. Centrifugal Force Deflections
verse deflection. Although this deflection may be
small, its effect upon pitch link strength be shall
evaluated from α beurn-column standpoint (see Fig.
6-10).
The ultimate and limit strengths shall be sufficient
for the maximum static leads resulting from both
flight and ground operations, including loads during
the blade folding 'φ applicable. The sources of these
loads are discussed in pars. 4-6. 4-7, and 4-8, AMCP
706-201.
Compensation for tolerance buildup in the ro-
tating control system and the rotor blade usually is
link nit.ch provided υ ε..ngth adiustment. Threaded
re- he I JA provision adjustment are common. ends NuI rod
quires close design Iccking attention. Positive
features be provided in order to prevent any shall
TURNBUCKLE length change after system rigging. Such changes
could be induced either by inflight vibrations or
during routine maintenance.
WASHERS KEYED provisions inspection include links pitch The shall
so as to assurc that sufficient thread engagement is
present to provide structural integrity. One method is INSPECTION
to provide an inspection hole. Fig. illustrates α HOLES 6-11
turnbuckle type of adjustment, showing the in-
holct, and spect-on JAN NUT nt The 1,...ire. J-μ installed .
ap~st.~σ.LOCKWIRE
-7-
-
NOTE: ARROWS INDICATE BEARING MCTIONS
Frovislons Pitch Pitch Link Adjustment Figure 6-11. Link Rod End 6-9. Typical Figure
6-20