*
special commercial parts or designs serving the same
formance is not compromisod, belicopter design
should permit servicing and maintenance at all levels
with equipment standardizad fo: Army usc. Electrical
connectors, fill plugs, fittings, and other interfacing
items shouid permit connection of standard GSE
without the usc of special adapters.
Where items require modification in order to per-
form the required function, the designer should speci-
fy tools and tooling that will comply with Govern-
mental specifications and Jocuments relating to
materials, proceses, equivalent toleral.ces, and size.
The designer sho.ld climinate, where possible, the
requirements tor new or special tools for use on new
helicopter sysiems.
Ths designer should reflect docisions ef Optimum
Repair Level Analysis, basod on Army main-
3 tenance/support policy in the maintenance and GSE
interface design. Equipment should be designed for
testing at the indicated levels, giving considerstion to
the in:trface with standardized Army test equip-
ment.
The design of individual black boxes should per-
mit their serviceability on the helicopter to bc de-
termincs by means of seli-containad. gu/no-go test
circuitry. The circuit loops of multi black-box sub-
systems shouid be contained in α single box. This will
climinate the nsed for calibration adjustments at the
helicopter level and will perrsit the use of simple,
* light weight, go/no-go circuits.
15-2.4 HUMAN ENGINEERING
training and relatively low skill levcle, andi some-
times working under adverse climatic and caviron
mental conditions, are employed to provide ihe
needed service, maintenance, and repa:- of the heli-
copter and installed systems. Therefore, designs must
be basod upon the proper allocation of ma:-
equipment perforniance for system operation, main-
tenance, and control. Thus, designs should ailocate
functions τ9 optimize performance, mioimize
operationa! constraints, and minimize operating and
maiutenance costs. Hunan Factors Engine ring
(HFE) design criteria principies and practices may be
found in MIL-STD-1472 and MIL-H-46855. Goals
to achizve include:
1. Achieve satisfactory performanc: by operator,
control, and maintenance personnel.
2. Reduce skill requirements and training time.
3. Increase the reliability of personnel-equipment
combinations.
4. Foster design standardization within snd &-
mong systems.

α і
Α ACP 706-202
Human enginocring apocialists should interpret the
design to define HFE problom areas and provido
solutions.
Populations for douign stould be spocifiod. During
the iterative procecs of design, existing critical mais-
tenance tazks shal/ be defined and, when poasible, eli-
minated.
AFSC Personnel Subsystems 1-3 provide epocific
criteria for human engineering design roquirements.
15-2.5 INSPECTION, TEST, AND DIAGNOSTIC
SYSTEM
The need for increased tactical mobility reqvire* ef-
ficient methods for inspection, test, diagrosis, and
prognosis in the tactical operating environment. Α
design objective, when requested by the procuring ac-
tivity, is to provide an automatic inspection, test, and
diagnostic system capable of diagnosing malfunc-
tions automatically, warning of impending
mechanical failures, minimizing maaual inspections,
and permitting helicopter components to be changod
on the basis of condition rather than of time. This
objective may be modified by state-of-the-art, mis-
sion, and weight/volume restrictions.
The automatic inspection, tast, and disgnostic
system shouid serve the foliowing wlements:
1. Engine(σ) and sccessorits
2. Fuei subaystem
3. Oil subsystem
4. Rotor group, includng main and tail rotor
transmissions, propellers
5. Flight control subsystem
6. Electrical subsysuem
7. Escntiai avionics
8. Hydraulic subaystem
9. Airframe (critical stress area)
10. Amzament subsyaem.
Appropriate sen sors should be installed per-
manentiy in the helicopter and in major system com-
ponents, *σ applicasie. Sensor media may include,
but are noi limited to, temperature, presure, vi.
bration, acceleration forces. liquid flow. electrical
continuity, eicctsonic cheracteristics, and vapor de-
tection. Sensor ouiputs sheuld terminate in α quick-
disconnect outict in thc väcinity of the ground power
connoctor terminal. The sensor outet will interface
with GSF capabk of processing senzor data outputs
automatically.
15-3 FROPULSION SUBSYSTEM IN-
TERFACES
15-3.1 GENERAL
Α pr julsion aystem consists of the engine or
15-3