rdationship. signifi- varies relationship Hertz-stress/life The treatnments, heat metal chemistries, The
iliding (Fig. 4-18). cantly ratios, velocities, loads, specific lubricants, results from function shown Each
and set of design α particular representing data and surface textures shape,, geometric temperatures,
these among The wide variance variables. operating lubricant and gearbox deflections, roughnesses
α the use of the danger in emphasizes functions other con- content, and water chemistry (including
of without consideration function Hertz-stress/life in con- of the surfaces the life all influence taminants)
conditions. and test the assumptions un- It is not conjunction. in properly, or more tact,
is an exponential stress Hertz calculated Because differences between life dramatic observe to usual
by Rssuming is lost generality little of load, function of but one when gearboxes supposedly identical two
and relationship life-load exactness for the by manufacturing is changed given variables the RMC
modified stress-life classic or an appropriate selecting en- system wear, or variability, operating scatt•ρ,
con junc- the life of any particular function to predict ,ironmental factors.
by nearly represented are most whose variablc3 tion bearing and mixed of gears complex system In α
chosen function. rule of the to use Miner'σ acceptable it is generally types,
of and application of the selection an example As for life pre- simplified form in α cumulative damage
profile consider the three-mission an power, power ievl representative root-mean-cube diction. Α RMC
and AH-IG IH in Fig. 4-19. The UH- spectra shown profiles using the assigned mission is calcu!ated from
from flight constructed histograms were stress power or Hertz, value of compressive, Eq. 4-15. The
was con- 43). The third histogram recorder data (Ref. power or load is then to the corresponding Σ,. RMC
with α spectrum supplied using the fatigue an appli- structed life determined from calculated, and the
with α mission role RFP for α helicopter recent Army curve, cable Σ-N
AND HEL;CAL GEARS GRADE 2 SPUR I -AGMA 41ι.02
6265 (REF. 39) AMS SPUR GEARS AND CARBURIZED II GROUND -
BUT HONED FINISH (REF. 39) III - SAME AS II
(REF. 40) 30% SLIP, CYM 52100, POLISHED IV -ASME DISCS
.__ 41) BEVEL GEARS (REF. AMS 6265 SPIRAL GROUND AND PEENED CARBURIZED V -
VI (REF. 42) LINE CONTACT - BACHA ROLLERS,
350 1 -- --.
V IV III \
I
-
250
""16. 21N 1V1 I%
I. I
U.J
CLi
C-2
50Λ
~ 10 103 108 0'"1' 10' lip 100
LIFE, CYCLES(
Curves vs 4-18. Gear Stres Life Figure
4-26