AMCP 706-202
8-1.3 DECIGN CONSIDFRATIONS
The design considerations that foll.ow are appli-
cablc to EMI and should be uscd to assist in keeping
EMI to a minimum.
The first design consideration involves the creation
of a good, basic grouzd plane. This is normally the
avionic component chassis or the airtrame structure
for the avionic system installation. An ideal ground
planc wall provide a zero-potential, zero-impedance
reference base for all circuits, and a sink or trap for
all undesired signals that can vecome inte:ference
sources.
A second design concideration, particularly at the
lower communication frequencies, is the require-
ment for single-point grounding so as to avoid
ground loops. The lauge, circulating currents in
ground loops are potential causcs of interference.
A third design consideraiion concerns shielding
practices for major components ard for the total air-
craft installation.
A fourth design consideration calls for isolating, as
für as possible, the power-carrying vires and cables
from the high-impedance, low-levei signal wiring.
The ba.ic principle is to categorize conductors on the
basis of wnether their primary leakage
ponents are magnetic or electrostatic. Ail condactors
carrying power or signal energy have associated witk
them ar external or leakage field that can induce ur.-
wanted signals or noise in nearby conductors by 1.1-
ductive or capacitive coupling. To minimize thesc un-
desirat le field components, various techniques are
used — such as electrostatic and magnetic shielding,
space separation, twisting of wire pairs, crossover
wiring methods, use of field-absorbing materials, and
sophisticated neutralization methods.
A fifth design consideration s to provide adequate
bonding and grounding for all elect-ical and cicc-
troni: equipment, and for parts of the vehicle struc-
ture that can contribute to the generation of electri
cai ncis:. All elcctrical and avionic equipment, sub-
systems, and systems that produce electromagnetic
energy shall be irstalled to provide a cortinuous low-
impecance path from the equipment enclosure to the
aircraft structure. The designer mast demonstrate
that the proposed bond: -g methods result in a DC
resistance as specified fc. ie various classes of bond-
ing in MlL-B-5087. The design shall minimize the
long-term eftects of opera: * ~mnal vibration, the effects
of corrosion beiwecn ad,a..nt surfaces and of gal-
vanic action, the diclecric breakdown of insulating
finishes, and the undesirable effects of intermittent
electrical contact. Bonding shali be accomplished by
direct mctal-to-metal contact whereves practicable. A
bonding jumper shall be used wherc direct meta!-to-
8-2

metal contact is impracticable. Such jumpers shall be
of the standard types as specified in MIL-B-5087, or
other appropriate types, and shall be kept as short
and direct as possible. Where practicable, the jumper
shall not excecd 3 in. in Iength. Surface preparation
removing all anodic film, grease, paint and lacquer,
or other higk-resistance materials from the im-
mediate area of contact. Direct-to-basic structure
bonding shall used wherever possible. For vehicles
with metallic skin, the skin shall be designeu so thar a
unifonn, tow-impedance skin. is produced through in-
herent RF bonding during construction. RF bonding
must oe accomplished betwver all structural com-
ponents. Hatches, access doors, and similar com-
ponents not in proxinity to interference sources or
wiring shafl be either bonced to or permanently in-
sulated from the vehicle skin except for the pro-
tective static drain band. It is highly desirable, during
the design phase, to confer regularly with airframe
designers so as to resolve compatibility problems.
For guidelines to analysis and design, the design er.-
gineer should consult MIL-B-5087, AFS:C DH 1-4.
Ref. 1. and the NAVSHIPS documents referenced in
field com- MIL-STD-461.
A sixth design consideration for minimizing EMl is
1o separate and isolate pulse devices and equipment
from other devices that are highly suscep:ible to
EMI. This is accomplished by attempting *o separate
sucn items as puised radars, interrogators, trans-
ponders, an 1 HF transmitters from con.puters, data
processors, and susceptible receivers. This is not
always possible, 'nasmuch as the physical locations of
sone devices are dictated by rnission requirements.
However, the designer shculd strive to achieve as
cable.
A final design consideration involves the use of
double-shielded coaxial cables. Other cables or wires
requiring shields shall have a minimum of 90%
coverage. Connectors used with shicid cables shall be
provided with black shells for fastening cable shiclds.
8-1.4 ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Environmental considerations are pertinent to the
design of the brsic avionic system, and to the
airframe-system interface. Susceptibility to rotor
modulation must be considerec. The very high fre-
quency omni-directional range (vOR), instrumçat
landing system (ILS) localizer and glidescope, VHF.
FM homer, anc other cquipn:ent have bcen affected
adverscly by near-frequency rotor modulation. As
rotor blades pass over the air:raft, a modulation of
the incoming wavefront is set up, with pronounced