AMCP 706-202
I
1.1 - - -
j_
Σ -
-
,0.9
0
<
NO 0.8
0.7 -which %
0.6 (Λ
ι.
Σ0.5
-divided
FLUTTER I0
0
0.3 1of
Σ10 15 20 25 30 35
BLADE ANGLE AT 0.8 RADIUS, deg
Figure 5-40. Stall Flutter Design Chart
__
_ -designing
SHEAR STRESS
tA MEASURE 01?Τ
FLUTTER) STALL
--
C -- ]1.0,
1CM
-
12 10 8 6 4 2 0
ZERO LIFT LINE ANGLE OF ATTACK, deg"
mnd Figure 5-41. Airfoil Flutter Characteiltldcs Stall
flutter by evaluated for stall may be also Α blade
cocffi- of the moment characteristics of the analysis
the 5-41, in Fig. airfoil. As shown the of cient Cm
is the airfoil when occurs usually flutter of stall onset
curve with respect the of peak the near operating C¢
coeffi- lift the not and axis, elastic torsional to the
high at only occurs flutter stall Thus, curve. cient CL
both forward - conditions blade load or thrusting
airfoil angle. blade for α given Because, reverie. and
changing CL without thrust or increases the camber
5-64

4Π.,
.. -.
CM, increasing the aitfoil camber is one way of in-
creasing the forward thrust or power at which α blade
will be subject to stall flutter. However, in all cases, if
the is greater than 1.0, the blade will not be $FP
blade of regardless flutter stall true to susceptible
angle or loading.
The other possible cause of high torsional bltde
response, and also bending response, is Karman vor-
tex excitation. When the vortex excitation frequency,
) is proportional (aM to /η, coincides -AV' -VI
with the torsional or bending natural frequency of the
blade, significant blade response may result. The
frequency expression is the reciprocal of the SF*?
ι.ε., frequency, the torsional by (SFP/χ,)-1.
tor- of the natural blade Although the coincidence
5ional or bending frequencies with the Karman
vortex excitation fregqucncy can result in significant
blade response, particularly at very high blade angler
attack or blade stall, the response is not divergent.
This type of response can be experienced at high
blade angles even by blades whose is greater SFP
than 1.0.
this dikrucsinn is thr. δ--sirsphility of App?:¢ent from
propelier blades with high torsional
frequencies so that their is greater than 1.0. If SFP
this is done, divergent stall flutter is avoided. Also,
the higher the the less likelihood that Karman SFP,
problem at very high vortcx excitations will be α
blade loads. In general, solid propeller blade con-
struction, ε.γ., using aluminum, gives rclativcly low
torsional natural frequencies and values below SFP
so care must be exercised that these bilades are
not operated in the stall flutter zone of Fig. 5-46.
Although composite monocoque blade construction
struction, it frequently gives value,, below 1.0. SF)' In
general, propeller blades consisting of α structural
spar and α thin composite airfoil shell have SFP
1.0 values of inu.η greater than and are not suscepti-
flutter. stall to ble
5-8.2.5 Propeller Roughness
Α propeller can apply loads to the aircraft with
resulting vibration or roughness that is unacceptable
vi- These occupants. or the structure aircraft to the
two sources: from primarily stem excitations bratory
of the unbolance and aerodynamic wAss excessive
non- of combination undesirable an propeller, and
character- dynamic propeller ano flow field uniform
frequency aircraft at α shakes the former The istics.
at aircr'aft shakes the latter the I Π, whereas of order
of the the number of multiples are that frequencies
propeller. α four-bladed 8Π for ε.γ., 4Π, - blades
and assembly manufacture, design, Through proper