manually operated α selector valve. Self-displacing
accumulators can used to in.ure be that the asm)o-
ciated hydraulic system reservoir is kept to α
minimum size and weight.
due The cold start is α primary design point to high
line-loss charactebistics with -65*F fluid tempera-
tures. The motor requirements for equivalent warm
oil output torques are not increased appreciably by
-65"F fluids; however, flow rate will be greatly
reduced until fluid temperature has increased.
Instantaneous or fast opening of the manual con-
trol va;ι'χ can cause hydraulic motor shearing shaft or
oth-.ρ damage duc to the high-π asure shock wave.
The control valve design should include features to
provide for slow buildup of pressure (0.5 to 1.0 sec is
reasonable). At high temperatures, the extra fluid
enrgy as available losses α result of decreased line
may require control if the APU or turbine engine is
aoceleration-limit,_ α corn- due to α characteristic of
gear porent or the basic train.
Claracteriscs Rejectwo Heat System 9-2&. 9.•
,,-nr :υ,_ . ,,,-,o•vci .. - τ-- MA --. -
or less) less, and low flow of Σ gpm or generally do
Large. equipment. cooling special any require not
relatively in operating systems high-power-loevl
heat require may regions temperature warm ambient
temperatures fluid to maintain order iii exchangers
2750F. of limits upper !1 the Type below
The performance specification for the heat ex.
changer includes the following requirements:
I. Media maximum inlet and outlet temperatures
allowed
2. Media minimum and maximum mass-flow rates
and outict mnCLi .nriMaum IIJIM 1WrMAIMlaUnM U
allowable temperatures
4. Hydraulic fluid minimum and maximum mass-
flow rates
5. Allowable pressure drops in both the media and
hydraulic sections.
exchan•er The heat specify qualification test σ"all
the following basic requirements in addition to α
demonstration of performance:
Realistic impulse 1. testing as α pressure vessel so
as to insure adequate fatigue life
2. Environmental tests, iacluding vibration, shock,
and corrosion testing.
9-2.6.10 System Awslysis
"The system performance analysis necessitates
definition of the requirements of each of the sub-
systems in terms of output requirements and resuling
"input needs. Flight control subsystems and utility
\ subsystems are the basic divisions. Par. 9-4.6, AMCP

706202 AMCP
706-201, discusses the analysis or determination of
power requirements for both types of subsystems.
Where there are several subsystems, the maximum
simultaneous need must be detc; ntined in order to
define the peak output capability. As α part of the
performance analysis, line-sizing criteria based upon
to maximum allowable transients must be used insure
that MIL-H-5440 and practical limits are met.
In order to insure that performance goals in- -
cluding combat-damage tolerance and single- and
α dual-failure tolerances - are met, failure mode and
effect analysis (FM EA) must be conducted. This sAW.
conducted be in as much detail as is practicable. This
be analysis prepared in accordance with the sAWll
system safety program plan of Chapter AMCP 3.
706-203.
MIL-H-54,0 defines the hydraulic system dat and
reports that are rcquired. including:
I. System requirement studits data
Design 2. selection data
3. Developmental data
data Production 4.
5. diaRram Schematic
6. Hydraulic system design report
componenrt nonstandard system 7. Hydraulic
drawings. assembly cross-sectional
specifica- detail helicopter of the requirements The
requirements, MIL-H-54,0 the tion, with together
re- report system hydraulic basic θ- constitute shall
quireten,.
9-2.7 HYDRAULIC COMPONENT DESIGN
SELECTION AND
The detail ν for the various compo-
nents needed to complete the hydraulic system are
discussed in the paragraphs that follow.
9-2.7.1 Actulors
Actuators may be separated into two basic classes:
flight control and utility. These two classes may be
divided into rotary and linev- output types. The flight
be control actuaors may dual- or single-system types
with manual, mechanical, pilot control input signals.
In addition, some units include an integrated control
augmentation system (CAS), α stability augmenta-
tion system (SAS), and/or an autopilot system. The
controls - manual and electronic generally are -
combined oith the electrical control mode, either in
the series or in parallel with (Fig. manual mode 9-23).
The series mode provides limited authority and
flight control surface motion without motion feed-
the back to pilot'σ control stick. The parallel mode or
operation provides unlimited authority: in effect.
9-13