16,000
14,000
12,000
+ psi
0001
MID-BLADE VIERATORY STRESS, 000 6.00
4,000
0002
POWER = NORMAL RATEU
0=
100 160 200 280 300
INDICATED AIRSPEO V, ki
Curves
5-8.5.2.2 Iaierpretatien ef Renunits
To dotermine siructural integrity. the mcasurod
stroses in various regions of the biade — after due
consideration of background data snd allowance for
change — must be compared with appropriate
material streogth information. Tbe strength data are
ostablishod from fuil-ecaie anui specimen testing. in
choneing appropriate strongth data, the level of mcan
stroe from design computatioas is sufficicutly ac-
curste. For operating conditions considered to be esaen-
tially oontinuous, the sireas leveis muat be below the
endurance limit. Normal cruice flight must be treated
as α contiauous oporating condition, and, in some in-
3 po π
tranted simitarty.
Α furtiber afer astabliching that
pontisuou ope acaaptabiu
atracua, is to deter
poociy repestabia, pera oq ε noqi ge or Le., 8o δ — micins
become too high undsr axpactable variations in ctir-
amstanose. Such€ operation

AMCP 706-202
at cortain critical apoods in σ ridom ground winden-
vironment, or soma instances of stall flutter. In such
cascs, it may ba noceusary to avoid spocific operating
rogions in order to assure structural integrity,
For conditions, such as takooff and inflight ma-
neuvers, where vibratory stroes levels exceod ths en-
durance limit, the cumulative fatigue damage must be
shown to rosult in an accoptable fatigue lifc for the
propeller. Fatigue life dotermination is discussed in
Chapter 4, AMCP 706-201.
5-9 ANTITORQUE ROTORS
5-9.1 GENERAL
The tail rotor of α single-rotor helicopter is
designed to provide thrust for counteracting main
rotor torque at all flight conditions and to provide
variable thrust for control in both the torque and
antitorque directions. Yaw control is effocted by vari-
ation and modulation of the collective pitch setting of
ths tail rotor. The collective pitch is controlled by
directional control pedals and normally is adjusted so
that, at the design point hover condition, the pedals
are in α neutral position. For single-rotor kelicopters
360 tionai diraction of main roto: rotation), the left pedal with the sdvancing bladc on the right, (the conven-
increases tail rotor (positive to the right) thrust, pro-
ducing α keft yaw. Likewisc, the right pedal wili pro-
duce α right yaw. with the tail rotor going to lower
valucs of thrust au.δ finally into "reverse thrust".
The tail rotor design goal is to produce, with
minimum power and weight, the thrust necessary to
moct the control and antitorque roquirements. Tail
rotor roquirements must be met without the oc-
currence of any undesirable vibretion, whirl, or sbake
characteristics. The tail rotor is dasignod for the most severe anbi-
ent conditions inciuding helicoptes critical bover el-
titude and tamperature, and the critical altiude for
thc enginc.
The maximum thrust that the tail rotor must pro-
visr without blade stall is that required to counteract
main rotor torquc, while aiso providing the specified
positive yaw acceleration and overcoming tail roter syroscopic proccssion effects, in the siaximum spoci-
fied croma-wind. Provision muat be included to
countoract disturbances such as gusts. Coaaiceration
alao nanat be given to tse thruet loes due to intarfer-
ance with the wertical fin, main rotor, and otber parts
of tha halioopiat. Exporience hae abown that if the tail rotor thruet
requiremests &τ ths critical low-apeed vonditions (α-γ.. hover plas laft yaw lato α aide wriad α- misimuen
msiey adtitude) are sca, al requiromoncs for
forward fght uaualy wil be sstiafßied. Howavsr, tiks
5-77