ν-nes or other equip-itent be that could affected ad-
versely by high temperatures. Openings should be
marked "Ground Heater Duct".
1.3.9 ENGINE WASH
The designer shall provide α α•ξ~σ for connecting
ground cart to the engine watr wash system.
DRIVES AND TRANSMISSIONS I"-4
General requirements for transmissions and drives
presented aie in Chapter 4 and MIL-Τ-5955. In-
stallation design ease should provide for ot replace-
servicing, meat, repair, and avoid and should re-
qsiirements for special tools and fittings. Standard
eyelet fittings thould be provided for attachment of
slings for hoisting components such as gearboxes and
transmissions.
markers indices, keys, or othem Easy-to-read
that require indclded on gears and shafts should be
radial during assembly and installation, alignment
Major components and assemblies should be inter-
MIL-λ-8500. with accordance in changSabie
Accessories shall and accessory drives be located
for eas en- of removal and replao,.ι-ment. The desian
gineer should make maximum use of standard fit-
avoiding tings, adapters to the maximum cx- possible
tent. -
Sensors compatible with the helicopter inspection,
test, and diagnostic system be incorporated (see shall
par. 15-2.5).
shall Oil systems be provided with α rimple, visual
level method of verifying oil from the ground. Sumps
should be equipped with self-locking drain valves and
helicopter of the path clear drain oil an adequate
have positive-lock filler cap should The oil stuicture.
Co,--.• -ndn arm.4 in dt-an be• α should φ•eawr.σ •andl
α sideration should be given to installation of chain
re- caps following filler loss of prevent to or cable
moval. Required grease fittings sAu/ be designed in
accordance with MIL-F-3541.
15-5 ROTORS PROPELLERS AND
on the should be provided features Quick-removal
cowling, spinners, and protective housings. Rotor
and propeller controls should be designed with quick-
disconnects connection to facilitate uf control-circuit
testers.
Each helicopter rotor blade be identified by shall
serial and number marked in accordance with Army
Technical Bulletin TB 746-93-2 and be inter- shall
changeable within the rotor system. Rotor blade tip
markings shall or equivalent be provided in order to
"provide for ground-checking of blade alignments.

AMCP 7O2O2
The designri sling provide for lift of individual ushal
rotor blades and the rotor hub.
Blade trat .lng and balancing techniques should be
so simple α as to eliminate the need for maintenance
test fliaht after tracking and badancing.
The propeller assembly design provide for the sall
of use standard tools and tool types. Also, at-
hdll use tachment corm- points be provided for of the
hoist- for device lifting and wrench propeller bination
ing the complete assembly. Blades will be numbered
erially and wiil be individually interchangeable. The
design should pent 'blade removal, ling, hadling.
installation to and be accomplished with the indi-
α vidual blade it: horizontal plane.
15-6 FLIGHT CONTROLS
in- subsystem as defined herein The flight cortrol
secondary flight control primary and ludes the
the non- the routing systems, systems (if applicable),
and the trim systems. rotating systems,
SNSTEMS ROTATING 15-&1
The components of the rotating portion of the
control system flight should be ca able. of beins re-
placod without disturbing the rigging. Α plunm or
holc tapped in α relatively rigid member, such as ι
structuval be beam, so should provided that control
surface rigging gages can be attached by α bolt or
screw. location The must be accessible readily ao that
maintunance/support personnel can perform the
necesary inspections and be adjustments. Care must
the taker. to provide work space neesusry fr the ad-
shafts, justment of pivot push-pull tubes, and β, ll
boost devices or electrical hydraulic When criuks.
allow to be provided access must sufficient are used,
maintenancc, servicing. and instiection, for
If autopilots and/or stability augmentation sys-
be in- must self-testing provisions are used, trcms
duded to the extent feasible. Where self-test is not
ftasible, test connectors for isolating faults of α failed
should oquip- so that test be provided component
be. mert can attached externally.
SYSr•Τ_ NONROTATING 154.2
Par. 15-6.1 applies equally to nonrotating systems.
When cables and lieu pulleys are used in of bell
cranks and push-pull tubes, α means of checking and
setting the cable tensions to specified values must be
provided. In all cases, wear points, such as beli-crank
bearings must have acess for insp"-zion and cot-
rectioni.
15-6.3 TRIM SYSTEMS
Interfaces and for cable pulley, or bell crank and
I-5