AXCP 706-202
indication. and with rapid control of tie particular
systems and sclcction of various avaiiable options.
Shape coded controls should be considered to allow:
the oporator to sclect the various sight mnodes, and
types and quantitier of ordnance with α minimum di-
version from his search or tracking tasks. The design
shall provide the operetor with up-to-the-minute
store inventory information in order to insure the in-
telligent choice of ordnance for firing. Design con-
sideration also shal! be given to preclude inadvertent
activation ofthe weapun systems.
10 6.2 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
For all weapon control systems, the following
design requirenients shall be app'ced:
1. Multipic, and preferably sequential, actions are
requi:ed from the initial control operation to the nor-
mal firing or reiease of the ordnance. All weapon
controls and circuits shal! be fail-safe so as to prevent
firing or release of ordnance in the event of improper
control operations or sequences. Where practicable,
the design should make ut either mechanically or elec-
trically impossible to actuate control circuits :ν en
improper sequence. The operator shall be provided
with feedback to indicatc improper sequencing. If
deemed necessary, it is permissible to have controls
serving dual finctions; however, in no case should
safety be compromised. Controls used for prearm or
release shall be made unique to that opcration.
2. Where practicable, all armament controls and
indicators with the exception of the firing switch shall
be grouped together. The group should be outlined
hy α 3/16-in red border (Color 3116. 7ED-STD-595).
Orange-yellow (Color 23538, FED-STD-595) and
biack (Coior 27038, FED-STD-595) striped borders
compartment lighting is used. Placara abbreviations
shali be made for cach indicator and control in ac-
cordance with MIL-STD-783 and AIVA BUL 261.
Preferred locatiors arc shown in MIL-STD-259.
3. Α complet. failure mode and effect analysis
(FMEA) during the design stage is desirable in order
to precluce the inadvertent desiga of unsafe failure
modes into the system.
10-6.2.I Arming, Fuzing, and Suspension and
Release Control Design
Requirenents for the helicopter arming, fuzing.
and suspensicn and release control *ystems include:
1. The helicopter commander shall be provided
with the capability to permit and/or to prohibit pre-
arming and arming of the weapons.
10-8

2. Two activa:ions are required, proferably by two
separate controls which should be separated so tha:
they cannot be actuated by one movement. For
example, mos: turrets require that both an "Action"
of "Deadman" switch and α trigger be depraeed
before the weapon will fire. Lever-lock and/or hood-
ed configurations shali be used for all master arming
switches. Thesc controls shail be designed so that ir-
advertent activetion is prevented. Α will-to-usc con-
trol capability should be provided. Both the design
and the crew responsibility for this control should be
developed based upon human factor studies of the
particular system.
3. Reversible, inflight capability of arming and re-
turning to an unarmed, or safe (ondition shall be
provided for weapons and/or suspension and relcase
mechanisms. The ARMED state shall be designed to
return automaticaliy to SAFE, and the SAFE state
should remain unchanged in the event of an aircraft
power failure.
4. The wiring shall be designed to preclude any in-
teraction between power and critical armament cir-
cuits. Cont.ol power shall not be applied to the
weapon unless it is turned on tentionally by the
operator of thc system.
5. Jettisoning of ordaance may be effected indi-
vidually or in multiplcs, provided that the warheads
are in an unarmed state. Depending upon the &rnia-
ment system design, missiles may be jettisoned cither
by free fall or by being fired from their iaunchers.
10-6.2.2 Huazan Fectorv Counideration
In all clove-proximity control groups, the in-
dividual controis beli be arrangod so that those
operated in jequence ere in line and in their normal
order of operation progrsseing fromm left-to-right or
from iop-io-boliom. Wirn two of more switches
mu. χ sctivatod simu.amously or in α rapid sc-
quenc- they should be locsted so that they can be
reachcu simultansouely from α fixsd position. Each
control should be placed so thet it does not hinde: the
opcration of another control in the soqunce, witih
adequate clearance for α 9Sth perceutiic glovod hand.
10-6.2.3 Indicater Dec
The following are weapon syatem indicator design
o5jectives:
1. Indicators shall have high reliability.
2. Α minimum number of indicetors shall bc
provided in the crew compartment to show the con-
dition (armed or safe) of critical weapon com-
ponenis.
3. Indicaior systems shall be current-limited so as