most surfaces, this involves one coat of wash primer
(MIL-C-8514). one coat of primer (Mil-P-23377).
und tv 3 top coats of a topcoat for example. TT--
516 or M!L-C-81773. Preparation of the surfacc for
painting will differ with ihc type of mctal und with
the surfuce (externa! or internal).
For this handbook, exterior surfaces arc defined as
all visible surfaces of an end-item that is housed
within the helicopter and all visiblc surfaces of thc
helicopter. including all portions of thc system that
are exposed to the airstrcam. Interior surfaces are the
nonvisible surfaccs of an end-item that is housed
within thc fusclage of che craft.
Prior to painting. aluminum surfaces usualiy are
finished with Anodizc MlL-A-8625 or Alodins 1200
(MIL-C-5541). and magnesium with Dow 17 or HAE
(MIL-Μ-45202).
Nonstainless stecls arc phosphate-treated (MIL-P.
16232), stainless stecls arc passivated (QQ-P-35). and
Fibe.glas surfaces are sanded and cleaned with naph-
tha (TT-N-95).
The first coat of paint applicd is the wash primer.
The term designates a specific mate-ial that con-
bines the properties of an inhibitive wash ccar, 3t
metal conditioncr, with those of the conventio::l
anticorrosive primer. The essential components o.
wash primers are phosphoric acid. chremate piz-
ment. and polyvinyl butyral resin. Wash primers can
be formulated that are effective cqually over iron.
steei, aluminurn, treated magnesium. copper. zinc.
and a widc varicty of other mctals. Thc advantages of
wash primers include case of application and rapid
drying. useful sange of temperaturc and humidity.
application to a varicty of metals, effectiveness in pre-
venting undcrfilm corrosion, and good adhesion as a
base for subsoquent coatings. The most frequentiy
uscd wash primer is that definca in MIL-C-8514. a
snooth-finish. spray-type. pretreatment coating fur-
nished in two pari : resin corponent and acid com-
ponent. The materials must be mixed prior to use.
The prisocr, which must corforni to MIL-P-23377,
is used ovor the wash primct. It is compatible with the
usual scrylic-nitroceliulose lacquer top cost, as well
as with the alkyd top cwts (TT-E-516) and urethane
(MIL-C-81:73). Tbc two-compexent, cpoxy-polya-
mide sysicn has high cheaical and solveat resis-
tance and uausual weatherabilisy: It is spray-applicd.
u
clars of maicrials zuitable for usc uoaer air-pollution
regulatipas. Tbe availability of clazes of coatings
racaing air-poliution reguiations is becoming in-
creazingiy important, and this factor should be kept
in sind by the desigaer.
The top coats most often spacifiod for Army air-

AMCP 704-202 т
craft are the nitrocellulose and acrylic-nitrocellulose
lacquers. which contain a wide range of pigmenta-
tior. Thcy are preferred because of thc casc in re-
mnoving themr with solvents when it is necessary to
change camouflage or color schemes or when re-
painting is requircd. They also are applicd with a
spray in volatile solvents (MIL-L-19537). TT-E-516
desclibes another suitable top coet, and onc that aiso
mcets air-pollution regulations. This coating is a
styrenated phthalic alkyd resin combined with the
necessary amounts of driers and volatilc solvents.
The mixture contains 50% resin solids. including
small pcrcentages of antioxidants, wetting agents.
and stabilizers. A wide range of coloring pigments is
availablc, and these arc present in amounts of 24-45%.
of the total solid content.
There are special paint formulations for cumou-
flage, battery compartments, high-temperature arcas,
walkways, and antiglarc applications. Rain-errosion-
resistant coatings (MIL-C-7439) are used on thc
Ieading edges of the rotor and on radomes. Therc are
special formulations for high visibility, and paints for
lettering and marking. Rubber, both natura! and syn-
thetic, and transparent surfaces such as glass and
plastic windows, are not painted.
Particular attention must be directed to assemblics
in which dissimilar metals are joined. It generally is
required that each of the mating surfaces shall be
finished with the minimum number of coats required
for interior surfaces. Where magnesium is one of the
metals to be jouned to a dissimilar metal. the metals
shall be separated by MIL-T-23142 tapc or MIL-S-
8802 scalant. Thc tape shall exiend not less than O.25
in. beyond the joint edge in order to prevent mois-
ture from bridging between the dissimilar metals. All
ioics and counicrsings ihai atiaching paris pass
through should be primed. and all joiming bolts.
screws, and inserts should be wet-primed when in-
serted. Preferably, all stecl nuts, bolts, screws,
washers, and pins should be cadmium-plated.
24.2 SPECIAL FINISHES
In asdition to the fiaishing of surfaces with organic
coatings as described in ihe previous paragraph, there
are a nuinber of speciai finishes for metal which serve
to provide thc desired protection without furthes ap-
plication of organic contings, or that are used to pro-
vide a suitable basc for the application of organic
finishes. Many of thcxe processcs involve thc dc-
velopment of a durabic, corrosion-resistant. oxide
layer on the surface of the mctal. Although the de-
velopment of this surfuce oxide film may or may not
involve the use of an ctectrical curient. the chemical
effect is similar and the process is callod anodizing.
2-33