F.
AMCP 706-202
PREFA(I:
This volume, AMCP 706-202, %econd is section the of a three-part Detail Design.
-ngitieering handbook, in the Engineering D'%sign Hand- Heficopier Engineering.
"book series. It was prepared by Forge Aerospace. Inc.. WAshington. D.C., under
subcontract to the Engineering Handbook Office, Duke University, Durham. NC.
The Engineering Design Handbooks fall into two basic c-'tegorics. those approved
fot release and sale, and those classified for security reasons. The US Army Materiel
Commano policy is to release these Engineering Design Handbooks in accordance
with current DOD Directive 7230.7. dated 18 September 1973. All unclassified
Handbooks can be obtained from the National Technical Information Service
(NTIS). Prozedures for acquiring these Handbooks follow:
a. All Department of Army activities having Handbooks need for the must sub-
mit their request on an official requisition form (DA Form 17, dated Jan 70) directly
to:
Commander
Lettcrkenny Army Depot
ATTN: DRXLE-ATD
Chambcrzburg. PA 17201
(Requests for classified documents must submitted. mith appropriate "Need to b,.
Know" justification, to Letterkenny Army Depot.) DA activities will not requisition
Handbooks for further free distribution.
b. All other requestors. DOD, Navy. Air Force. Marine Corps. nonmilitary .
Government agencies, contractors, private industry. individuals, universities, and
from: purchase these Handbooks others must
National Technical Information Service
Department of Commerce
VA 22151
Springfield,
Classified documents mey be released on a "'Need to Know" basis verified by an of-
ficial Department of Army representative and processed from Defense Documenta-
tion Center (DDC), ATTN: DDC-TSR, Cameron Station, Alexandria, VA 22314.
Users of the handbook are encouraged to contact USAAVSCOM, St. Louis, MO,
System Development and Qualification Division, with their recommendations and
comments concerning the handbook. Comments should be specific and include
rationale. Form t DA 2028, recommended text ¢hangcs and supporting
Recommended Changes to Publications (available through normal publications
be A copy of the comments should may be used for this purpose. supply channels)
sent to:
Commander
US Arny Mateviel Development
and Readin•es Command
Alexandria, VA 22333
Revisions to the handbook will be made on an as-required basis and will be dis-
trbutcd on a normal Letterkenny basis through the Army Depot.