2-4.2.1 Reinforcement Selection
The common reinforcements used in high-pressure
bestos. Attributes of these materials are: laminates are paper, cotton, nylon, glass, and as-
1. Paper. The least expensive, and adequate for
many purposes. Kraft paper has relatively long fivers
and is the strongest type. Alpha cellulose offers im-
proved clectrical properties. machinability, and uni-
formity, while rag paper laminates have the lowest
water absorption and intermediate strength.
2. Couton. Better impact and compressive
-strengths than paper, and most grades are only slighi-
ly more costly than paper. Electrical characteristics.
however, generally are not as good. The heavier
fabrics have the best mechanical properties, while the
fine weaves have good machinability.
3. Nylon. Low moisture absorption and excellent
impact strength and electrical properties, as well α:.
good resistance to chemicals and abrasion. However.
nylon laminates have relatively poor creep resistance
at elevated temperatures and are comparatively ex-
pensive.
4. Glass. fighest mechanical strengihs by tar.
These materials also have superior electrical proper-
ties and heat resistance. Cost is relatively high.
5. Asbestos. Used in the form of paper, mat, and
fabric. These laminates have excelient heat, flame,
chemical, and abrasion resistance.
Costs range from low for those with α paper base
to high for α fabnc base. The designer should select
the type of material best suited for the application.
considering interface tequirements and reliability.
maintain.bilaty, producibinty, and survivability.
2-4.2.2 Resin Selecsion
The resins used in the manufacture of industrial
laminates includ: phenolic. epoxy. polyester, sili-
cone, and melamine. The characteristies of each are:
1. Phe.. hc. The most widely uscd by far. Thesc
resins are inexpensive and have adequate properties
(mechanical. electrical, thermsi, and chemical) for
many desiga applications.
2. Epoxy Üsed especially uhere η:gh resistance to
chemicals and moisture is required. Mechanical
properties and dimenstonal stabilty aiso are
supenos.
3. Polyester. Less common, but used Io: mecham-
cal and electrcal applcation.. espectally ub ε flame
resistance is α requirement.
4. Sificone. Used primarily with glass fabnc where
ineat resp!ance to Soo°1 ν requred. Are resrtance is
eicelent and moistere „bsorphon is lou. The very
fow disipaton factot of tbesc resins at high te-
quencies ρ utilzed mn racat and radio insulator-.

AMCP 706-202
Room temperature mechanical properties are con:-
paratively low for glass faminates, und cost is high.
5. Melamine. Excellent are resistance at moderate
cost. Mechanical preperties, and heat. Name, and
chemical resistance qualities, also are good.
2-4.2.3 Specisl Types
In . ddition to the materials listed previously, there
arc two special types of industrial laminates that de-
serve mention:
1. Postforming grades. Made from resins that.
altbough thermoset, will soften erough at clevated
temperatures to allow the material to be molded into
intricate σ!.apes. Spæcial paper or fabric reinforce-
ment also is used, permitting considerable stretch-
ing.
2. Clad laminates. Clad, on one or both surfaces.
with α variety of materials, including aluminum, cop-
per. stainless steel, silver, magnesium. and various
rubbers. The corper-clad Jaminates (gererally
glass/epoxy) are used widely as printed circuit
boaris.
2-4.2.4 Specifications
In1 addition te the NEMA Standards (Pub. No. LI
1-1965). the following Military and Federal Specifi-
cations are applicable to fabric laminates:
1. 1. Π-509. for sheets. rods, and tubes of various
tesins and reinforcements
2. MIL-Π-79, for rods anu tube: of paper/pheno-
lc. cotton/pher.olic, and glass/melamine
3. Λ-π-513. for paper/phenolic sheet
4. MIt.-Π-15035. for cotton/phenolic shect
5. Μ1λ.-Π-18324. for cotton/phenolic sheet for
water- or grease-Jubricated bearings
δ. Μ11.-Π-15037, for glass/melamine sheet
7. Mi1 -Π-15047, for nylon/phenolic sheet.
2-4.3 FILAMENT COMPOSITION
Thut. paragruph is concerned primarily with high-
peiformance composites. consisting of plastics re-
inlorced with nonwoven filaments of glass. boron.
und high-modulus graphite. Because the fibers are
nonwo en and. usually, fintwisted. they can be
packed to high fiber loadings. The fibers can be
oriented siong the axes of stress in proportio. to de-
sign requirements, allowang efficiert utilization of the
outstanding properues of ihis type of reinforcetient.
Ω'hen the specific strength (tensile strength-to-den-
sity ratto) and specific modulus (Young'σ modulus-
to-density ratio) of tne metal alloys (alumnum, steel.
tt.mum) commonly used in aireraft construction are
compared. it is shown that they are ncarly equal to 7
to 9 × 10:ν. and 100 to 110 × 10° in., respectively.
2-17