the maximum is number of rolling eAemn-ts
capacity, Retainer types sacrifice some load but
the highest speed capabilities of any of the
the guidance bearing types due to roller and
provided by the retainer. Because of the high
to-diameter ratio of the rollers, these bearings
susceptible and to roller skewing roller end loading,
speeds Therefore, they limited aft to lower than
standard cylindrical roller bearings. Limiting
as well as load capacities for the various types of
bearings, art given in such manufacturr'σ die
catalogs as Ref. 8.
Needle roller bearings arm produced in several
figurations for different applications. The most
mon type is the drawn-cup bearing, which consists
α drawn, case-hardened cup surrounding
and ground rollers. The cup acts as the bearing
race and incorporates α lip at each end to
roller retention. The shaft, when properly hardened
and finished. may serve as the inner race,
separate inner race may be provided. Drawn-cup
bearings are manufactured in both full-complement
and retainer types. J "--..ι... λ ... ,,bh,., • .... _. -_ "',
crowned ment of hardened, needle rollers and α
retainer, also are available. The inner and outer
are designed separately, using dearances and
recommended by the besring manufacturer.
crowned rollers provide fairly even stress distribution
and.iocrease along the roller length, the misalignment
capability of the bearing.
Needle thrust bearings use cylindrical
arranged with their axes positioned radially
respect to the axis of the beaing and held in
machined retainer. The ro•lers run on flat races
are hardened and ground. Crc mut take," Μ-
locate the race surfaces perpendicular to the
rotation in order to prevent end loading of the
,E, elements Because the rolling of needle thrust
are cylindrical rather than tapered, some sliding
always occurs between the rollers and the
Becauk of this condition, α generous lubrication
excessive should be provided in order to prevent
generation.
16.3.3.3 Spherical Roller Bearin
Spherical roller bearings are used to accommodate
shaft made misalignment. They arc with either
cave or convex spherical rollers in both single-
configurations. double-row One raceway is
and giound to conform to the roller. In the
convex rollers, guide flanges are provided on
race. The other raceway. typically the outer,
ground with α continuous apherical surface.

ued. row spherical bearings can cry high radial loads
have very while supporting thrust loads. only light
needle Double-row spherical boarings also have radial high
spacing load capacities and can support thrust loads much
length- higher than thove permitted by single-rov designs. In
are addition, double-row bearings can be made with
skewin asymmetric rollem, which reduce the roller
permit beaing are tendency. and thus the to ofrate et
speeds, higher speeds. Speed limitations and load capaities
nee- bearings for typical spherical roller we preeted in
Ref. 9.
usual single- In addition to the and double-row
con- designs, spherical roller α are available bearings in
corn- special thrust bearing configuration. Ilis type of
of bearing has α high thrust-load be capacity and can
hardened symmetric manufactured asymmetric with either or
outer rolling elements.
provide Although spherical roller bearings do not possess
the high-speed roler capabilities of cylindrical
bearings α or α or ball bearings, they afford combination
of high load and misalignment capacity that cannot
be equaled Thes by any other bearing type. unique
attributes are applications. useful in many helicopter nmn..le
steel 16-3.3.4 Tape,'δ Retli to-In' V
races In helicopter applications and in which both radial
finishes bevel thrust shaf tapuad loads are high, as on α year
The conaWdra6oa. roller bearings should receive first Of
all antifriction offw bearings, tapered roller barisngs
the .best combination apaciies. of radial and thrust
The raceways of bearing and rollers α tapered rolhl
rollers are conical in shape. If the lins of contact betwee
with extended, tey the rollers and each race are at α meet
α flat, common point on the axis of the bearing. This
that geometry results in virtually pure rolling at all points
--- to of contact. Becausc ι,;pcd upon " τ uheluls
axis of roller by the inner and outer races (referred to as the
rollers. cone and to cup, respectively) are normal the line of
experiences bearnp contact, the roller α tnt thrust load
toward loud reacted its larger-diameter end. This is
races. by α shoulder on the inner ring (or cone) called the
filn cone back tib. Σ'iding always is present betwon the
back heat roller and the cone rib, resulting in the signifi-
cant disadvantage of tapered roller bearings - their
limited speed capability. At the preent state of
technology, tapered roller bearings should not be
greater operated with α relative velocity than 7000
con- fpm between the roller and the cone back rib.
and However, this figure is arbitrary and will be increamed
machined δ•eigns as more-advanced taper bearing are pro-
case of duced.
this Tapered roller bearings often are mounted in pals
is or in α double-row configuration with either α one-
Single- piece α dual cua or cone. Either the pair-mounted or
16-ii.
I