when cost is u factor and/or thermal conductivity
of concern. Dupont Nornex nylon-fihbertreatcd core
.matcri;.λ, though recently developed, has thermal
sistance and the properties required for aircraft
flooring applications,
Employment of α honeycomb core material
construction is an exact technique. Physical charac-
teristics of the construction must be investigated
thoroughly, and rclatcd to available core properties,
piior to the firming oi the design. In addition to
structural requiremen;σ, the environmental opera-
ring conditions must be explored,
Common honeycomb types (Fig. 2-4) include
conventional hexagonal shape, α rectangular flexible
core, and the reinforced and square cell shapes.
rectangular core is, essentially, an over-expanded
flexible hexagonal core. The core is α configuration
departure in that it inctL"Jcs α free sine wave that
lows the core material to assume compound
ture at no sacrifice in the mechanical propcrties of
foil material. Flexible core, unlike anticlastic
gonal core. does exhibit characteristics of α
elastic material. Reinforced hmxagonal core employs
I
RECTANGULAR
REINFORCED HEXAGON
Fi, 2.4. Commoa

AMCP 706-202
is an additional flat sheet in the center uf the hexagonal
cell so α% to favor α mechanical advantage in α speci-
direction. re- tic orthotropic ce:ll core The square is α
consequence of manufacturing employed case, and is
primarily where resistance wclding techniques. are rc-
quired in order zo develop the core material. in α
Although α predominant use of honeycomb core
single material is for constant thicknesses (flat, and
compound curvature applications), it also is used for
the such components as airfoil sections.
The mechanical properties of the core material in α
sandwich construction also must be considered. The
whether isotropic the core, or orthotropic, may be con-
sidered continuum as α for the membranes spacer
The (the facings). Typical properties of balsa wood cores
2-5 arc presented in Figs. and 2-6. Figs. 2-7, 2-8, and
2-9 illustrate typical properties of hexagonal
al- aluminum core material. Several different alloys are
curva- presented, Table 2-11 is α presentation of the propcr-
the ties of typical rigid foams.
hexa- The term sandwich construction describes the close
syn- attachment between face and core material in this
type of structure. Should this attachment be weak, or
ρ
HEXAGON
FLEX-CORE
SQUARE
Honeycomb Configurations
"VP 2-23