tbe operating spood range with at lcast a 10% :n argin.
Because the vaiuos of critical spoed charge with
biado anglo duc to the blade twist and contrifugal
effocta, bladc angle shouid be considerod in the evait-
ation of reactionloss mode critical spood relative to
the operating range. Also, the effective retention
stiffnoss differs for the three kinds of propeller modcs
ahown in Fig. S-39 because of structural coupling
within the hub. This effoct must be includod in dy-
namic and response calculations for the blade. In
general, the reiention suiftyzas Is lowest for the ro-
actionless modes and hignest for the symmetrical
modos.
Propeller acrodynamic excitations with a frequen-
cy order of one grcater or onc Ies than integer mul-
tiplos of the number of propeller blades combine at
the propeller hub to produce backward or forward
whirl modos of the propeller, respectively. Because of
this whirling action and the rotation of the propeller,
these serodynamic excitations appcar on the gear-
box-aircraft system as rotating shcar and moment
loads at froquencies corresponding to multiples of the
number of blndos. For example, in e throc-bladod
propeller, excitations at frequencics of 2P ard 4P are
feit by inc gcarbox as a 3P-whiri.
This interaction of the propeller dynamic system
with the aircraft system must be taken into account in
calculating the propeller blade whirl mode critical
ONLY OUT-O?-PLANE
MOTIONS SHOWN IN
THE LOWEST AL ADE
BENDING MODE.
WHIRL
SYMMETRICAL
REACTICNLESS
Figure 5-39. Propelicer Vibrtioe Modes

AMC? 706-202
spoods. This can be done by a complote couplod ana-
lysis of a rctating. floxible propeller attachad to a
stationary aircraft dynamic systom. It abo can be cal-
culatod by first determining the variation with fre-
" npeeo oo
angular and radial dofloction oi the propediar shaft
for unit shear and moment whirt loads, and then in-
cluding the aircraf impodances in the propeller
critical spood analysir.
Aerodynamic axcitations at froquencias that are
n e
ler in a symmetrical modo, producing vibratory fore-
and-aft and torque loads at the same fre quency on
the goerbox-sircraft system. Just as with the whirl
modes, dynamic characteristics of the aireraft and
transmission system must be included when sym-
metrical mode propelier critical spooás are computed.
Agsin, this can be done with a coupled analyais, or by
the impodance tochnique discussoc previoualy.
Because the torsional impodance of a tranamission
system usually is low, symmciricel blade modes that
are primarily inplane (putting vibratory torques on
tse shaft) will have considerably higher criticai speoda
than would be calculatod for a fixod hub.
Beceuse of tbe centrifugal stiffening effoct and tbs
twist of the blade, propelier critical spoods will vary
with blade angle. Tbis effoct must be considerod in
piacing the critical spcods properly. In general, it is
enn
metrical critical spoods at lcast 5% out of the normal
operating range. Leas margia is ncoded for thesc
critical speeds than for the reactionless modrs
bocause of the much groater damping suppliod by
structural interaction with the aircraft system.
Once the dynamic characteristics of the propeller
system have boen delermined, the magnitude of the
response to the various propeller serodynamic exci-
tations can be determinod. For modes that are being
excited weli balow their critical spoeds, a real-vari-
- e
always is possible for 1P-acrodynamic excitatior and
sometines for 2P.
System response of the higher order acrodynamic
excitations mnay te determined by an energy method,
uaing the caiculatod normal modes of the propelhr
and assuming the structural and aerodynamic damp-
ing from expcrienco. Another method is to use
reeponse analysis, such as given in Refs. 50 and 51,
with complex variablas so as to include structural and
aerodynamic damping. The former (energy) method
uses the normat mosos and natural froquencics ob-
tainod from dynami: analysis of the propeller system,
and Jetermines the tasponse of the blade to ai parti-
cular acrodynamic excitation order by oquating the
5-61