χ
100
80
NOISE LEVEL, dR 80
α
300 400 500 600
TAIL ROTOR TIP SPEED. tps
Α VS :
Nala Levad
Α
between Nlade chord aad bade numsber. Uraally. is
best to kop the vaive of individue.ι biada solidity
α = χ/β betwecc 0.03 and 0.06 fur ranoas of struo-
ture and reication. The blade number β cos be say
raluc.
Tbe rotos solidity roquired depande upon tip spaedi,
disk losding. maximum thrust roquirod, apd the sir-
foil soction choscn. The chpice of the airfoit affocts
the mazimum operating Cr. thss direcily infauencing
the solidity.
The product (χ.β) of the roquirec blade chord ε,
times tine biade numt ar β can be found froon Eg. 5-22,
knowing the maximum operating tip spsod, tresicop-
ter yaw rate, fan blockage effoct, and thrus: requirz
tent: 6K
cb Cr π(8R)'Q
rhese χ ξ .φ. (5-22)
β = number of tail rotor blades
8 - blade tip los fccior, dimensionkees
= effc.xive blade chord, nt
- poig: moi:tent ofisertis per tiadc, lug-ft²
K - retio of togal seil rotor itrusi to pot tai
1 Jio: thrust, Cimensionkoss
R - tail roto: radius, At
tail rotor thrust to compensaic for main
rotor torqe
Ξ - distance fron comierline of wain rotor to
centerline of tail rotos, ft

ψ.
air domidy, samg/R'
- yaw rade, rad/oec
- yas δ 2 - tadl raior rointionel 1 spoed, rnd/sac
Eq. Σ-22, wibich is derivnl from Ref. 58, censider
σäbe blade lifs roquriv prired for tail rotor precenpiou and to
previde α cp sion in yaw.
50.54 Toies
Made twrist decronoiag fre μ isboard to outioand is
nead to improve sbr spanwios lond discributicn (and,
thrafone, psopuisive efciancy) of the Lail roior in
to saaxinias propalsive affcicacy becomec greaior the sladic or low-apeod Sligbt ceese. Tie twist raquirad
wish incraasing diak Jomding. Howeues, adthougi
apung 'scereyog.ed sogo: Sagegugdo ν mye
con have sdvese clfacte on the revosae thruet charac-
OCL soristics of α ginps rotor.
5-9.5.5 Biude à rilodd Bacelss
The choice of the airfoi section iafluenices overall
sizs and porformance. Maxiesum tk: ure ie deser-
asised by thc maximaas opua.ing lift coeficient of
the toion, cod the sottisa Groice wualiy is banel
upon pitcising mozent characteristics. Maay ta.δ
rotors uae NACA 0012 and 0015 sirfoil sections,
onez Agregoseso Jo proaom Segqprd : saq qoeq
cvpe the usual ogerating reagc.
Becausr tbe rize and weigkt of tail rotors are diroct-
ly dependont upon the maximum operating lift coef-
ficinna, the uvz of cambered airfoiks is bring cou-
side:zd. The inore important characteristics of two
camba:od scctions conzidered auitable #ur tril rotors
are showva :ν Tabic Σ-Σ aiong with the cha. ucteriuäics
of thr &yt getric NACA 00ι: for comgarison.
The NACA 23012 sirfoil is typicel ci α class of air-
foil ssctiors «hove camsber is primarily over the for-
ward soction ·.: ths airfoil. Compared with the syms- ! ε ν et an
with only : 3umüλ :nczeasc in pitching moraent cocffi-
cicnt Cy. The NACA 64,-412 iz typica! ot thic lami-
nar-flow air:oile (NACA 63, 64, 65, ans 66 scries)
evolved to provice low vaives of pinimum section
drag coefficient Coat: ty mainteannce of laminar flow over muc: I their *u:fao:, along with gt
high-spued lift and drog charazatristics. Due to θ.
fact that the car: er is disnbuteó over θ: eiine
chord, the pitching monstst coefficicnt is quite intg.
as chown in Tabie 5-5.
Th.ε vaiues of Czacx are showo for comparisen on-
ly. Valucs eari to icigo most include costecion fo:
opareting vzio : of dia.en and Reynolds numbern ara
for leading odge rougdnrsa. Failon to Epr'υ nocia-
sary crsections to airioil secxion dusos wil ressl isi
deficient taif roior capability.
54: σ