ditional basards to otber crow personnel in the event
of esorgoncy.
3. Adequete stowed tiedown strength sbould be
provided to prevent the cigist froen rebousding during
F inapace.
-adas jou ppnoqe siqpes peacmes so pouomqer ?.
sont lothal miacilo hazard in the evant of α craah.
5. The guidanos contained in Ref. 3 (Chapter 6)
shoukd ba followud.
13-2.5.2 Helmet Moume
The helmet mounted sight is anothar type of direct-
viewing optical sight currenty usod for belicopter
applicationa. Tbe scme clearance coneiderstions app-
ly to this installation as to the aircraft-mounted flexi-
bie sight. Adequate boad clearance must be provided
between beimset projections and tbe aircraft structure
for normal flight operation and for woapon control
within the required azimuth snd elevation flexibility
rangas. Quick-dieconnect provision must bs made to
allow dislocging of the belmet from its electrical or
mechanical connection with the aircraft; provisions
alo must be made enabling such diaconnection to be
α "singie-nana" operation.
One type of belmet sight incorporates α mochani-,
cal linkago to detect beed motions and sum the'
airsing information. Othar types of holmet sights use
light sensors, sonic sensors, and clectromagnetic
fields τ9 perform the same function.
* Another type of diract sight is the poriscopic sight
which viaws the targct thrcugh α mirror arrango-
ment and permits the sight bead to be locatod ax-
ternally and in locations that allow unobetructod lind
of sight within σ large envolope of azimuth and do-
prossion engle limits. The optical oquipment may be
supported from the aircran structuro, or may consti-
tute en integral part of rotating gunner'σ station.
Puriscope installations of either type are sizablc and
require adequate airframe support structure. Power
requiremonts for α flaxible gunner'σ cight station may
be significant and may require carly conaideration of
sichting station cable or hydrauiic line sizing and
routing.
13-2.5.3 Indrect Sig
. Indirect sights racive the target image from clec-
tronic sasors and project it to the observer by means
of α panel-mounted or bolmet-mountod display. The
ability of the obeerver to detoct and idontify targets
with an indirect sight is dependent on display rosolu-
tion, contraet, number of shades of grey, display size,
and eyo-to-panol distance. Detail design guidance for
indirect viaw sights and other CRT displays is
svailable in Ref. 21.

13-2.5.4 Mlmlbe Slgh
Sighting stations for miesile inetallation gaverally
will employ the sight installation uand for guns and
rockots. Provisions may be raquired for installation
of retractable optical fitars (in the gunner'σ line of
sight) for vee wben the missile axhzuat light intensity
is sufficient to cause temporary blindness or α blurred
viaw of either the targat or the guidence reforences.
Sight alignment with the aircraft datum plane may be
obtained electrically or mechanically, and ganoralty
roquires proviaions for adjustment.
13-3 LIGHTING SYSTEMS
13-3.1 EXTERIOR LIGHTING SYSTEM
The exterior lighting sysiem design may inciude on
anticollision light system, formation lights, landing/
taxi lights, searchlights, floodlights, and position
lights. These are discussed subaoquently. MIL-Λ-6503
provides spocific design requirements fo: exterior
lighting.
13-3.1.1 Anticollision Light Systean
Unteses othervise specifod, the Army devaiopedi
day/night anticollision light syatem shall be provided.
This system is identifiod as Lighs Sot, Navigation
(AABSHIL) and provides α white daytime strobe of
3500 effective candlo-powar and α rod night time
strobo of 150 effective candlo-power. This sysiem is
svailablc in the following twc typos:
1. Type I (28 V) NSN 6620-00-361-0644
2. Type II (115 V) NSN 6620-00-361-0614
Field of coverago shall be as spocifiod in MlL-Λ-
6503.
13-3.1.7 Formation Lights
For helicopters, formation flying lights usually fall
into two categorica: fusulage formation flying lights
and rotor tip lights.
Fuselage formation flying lights shal! be so
arrangod that adjacent aircrait can fly in either
steppad-up trail formation or voc formation by align-
ment of lights. Durabie dlectrolumincscent panels
casily can be adapted for fusclage lighting. Refer to
the spocific aircruft systomn specification for detail ro-
quirements. Α tost inatallation is roquirod to verify
optimum system design.
Rotor tip formation flying lights should be con-
siderod on helicopters because the rotor biade usually
extends beyond the fuselage, and movement of the
rotor disc provides an indication of an impending
manouver. Due to the high centrifugal loads of rotor
mizing filament and vibratory angle. Some type of
13-9