AMCP 706-202
In view of growing pressurcs to usc advanced com-
posites in aireraft siructures, it is appropriate to
examine the benefits, if any. to be derive:λ from tiscir
application to rotor blades. The outstending attrac-
tions of such msteriais are very high stiffness, high
strength, end low weight. It has been shown that thc
ratios of these properties .-- rather than the absolute
valucs — ase of prine importance. From the stand-
point of fatigue resistance (Coluinn 2. Tabie 5-4).
these materi-ls appcar to bc very compatible with
snore conventional materials for use in rotor blades.
The question, then, becomes whet'er there are over-
riding advantages to be gained from other character-
istics, such &σ ballastic tolerance, or the high value of
the ratio E/π.
The rotor blade dynamic response is highly depen-
dent upon the rotating natural froquencies of the
blade, and it is neccssary that the biade be designed to
avoid frequencies that are in resonance with any for-
cing functions. The expression for natural freguency
of α rotauing beam ωg. is
«йn μ + :,rad/sec (5-12)
where
α, = coefficient which is dependent upon mass
and stiffness distribution and has α δ.ffer-
ent value for cach mode of vibration, di-
mensionniess
El = stiffness. Ib-in.²
≈ coefficient dependent upon mass distribu-
tion and the mode of vibration, dimension-
les3
= mass per unit length of heam, slug/in.
= lcngth, in.
Ωa :otational spced, rad/sec
For hinged beams, tihe values α. and K„ fer the first
three modes arc: α, = 15., α = 50.0.α3 = 105.0
K, = 6.36, K, = 17.65. κ, = 3.50
To exainine the effect of stiffness Ef on natural fre-
quency, an example is presented: & constant-cross-
soction blade of 25-ft radius with α weight of 4.0 15/ft
and α flapwise EI of 20 ξ °:. Ib-in.² Α tip speed of
680 fps is assumed, giving α rotational epeed Ω of 27.2
rad/sec: hence
(15.5) 20 × 4×(25×12) +6.38(27.2)
12 × (32.2× 12)
"695 + 4720 = √$415
73.6 rad/sec
5-52

ι.
which is
$$ 73.6 2.72
ΙΛ2
ог WR1 = 2.720
Now, assuming that *he stiffness El is incrcased to 40
× 10 1β-in., wR =1390 +4720 #\6110
78.2 rad/sec
Thus. for the frst flapwise bending mode on α typical
hin.ged rotor blade, α 100% stiffness change 1esults in
α change in rotating frequency ωR| = 4.6 rad/sec,
or 6%. This mode of vibration is critical in an articu-
lated rotor, and the only effective way to control it is
by varying the mass distribution, because little can be
donc by changing the stiffness.
Further examination would show that the first
chordwise mode of vibration, as well as the higher
modes in both planes, is affected significantly by
blade stiffness. Fer hingeless or semirigio rotors, ail
modes are affected significantiy by blade stiffness. In
these types of rotors, the higner modes of vibration
are manifest primarily in blade stress levels, as op-
posed to vehicle vibrations. For multibladed rotors,
the higher vibration modes also can contribute signi-
ficantiy to vibrations.
Material selection aiso can be very important in
rotor blade fabrication. It now is possible to produce
nonuniform blade cross sections in any of the
available materials, although it generally is easier
with composites, which can β: molded. As in in-
stances where noncompatible values of E/o can cause
high stresses in flight, it also is important to avoid
material combinations with greatly differing conf-
cients of thermal expansion. Such ascemblics can
develop high resicual stresses as α result of adhesive
bonding opcrations.
Ideally, 9 rotor biade should be made of materiais
that are highiy resistant to both corrosion and ero-
sion. Corrosion resistance of the nonmetallic com-
posites is highly attractive and car be influential in
material selection. In α nionolithic composite blade,
it is necessary to protect the forward portion against
erosion. The most effective materiala for this purposc
are steinless steel, nickel, cr cobalt abrasion shieids.
Of the clastomeric materiais, the urethancs are
superior and are very durable wbcn subjected to
sand, but generally have been found to have short
lives when rain is α significant part of the environ-
ment.