four-bladed basic modes for α three The excitation. this case, 5-37. In in Fig. shown as is form such take α
reactionlea and whirl, symmetrical, - propeller by IP excitation reduce the to possible be it would -
the how shows also which 5-39, in Fig. are illustrated no virtually to obtain so as axis propeller tilting the
For response. the system in participate can engine the entire over propeller into the flow angular
the blades, respanse to or more with three propellers or- level. The load factor for α given range operating
nn- the not involve does aerodynamic excitation I Π is not propeller the is zero because intercept dinate
on the resulting loads the because, aircraft, or the celle lifting is the rotor the main δ α; wing, by the affected
"1evica forced conventional α Hence, steady. aircraft are speeds. at low
can be used α fixed hub) (assuming blade response which consider 5-37 Figs. 5-36 and Although -
include the must α program and Such 51). (Refs. 50 in the inflow by angular caused the I Π excitation only
blade and dynamics tortional the blade effects of cx- the IP at which speeds indicate direction pitch -
IP. not only the dctermines stiffness, and retention occurs because in fact, seldom are ,ero, this, citations
steady but also the resultant loads and stresses, to the pitch blade washes in addition of the presence of yaw
to In order nacelle-aircraft structure. the loads on the In addition, if considered previously. washes
have α should the blades avoid I Π-magnification, in the varation ib flexible, of the propeller mounting
stiff. and be torsionally first mode frequency propeller hiAh included in the be alignment must nacelle
2Π-, 6Π-, etc., nero- propellem, the For four-bladed effec-τ. analysis as an aeroelastic load
reaction- that are modes excite blade loads dynamic the propel- at envirunment aerodynamic Once the
in Fig. 5-39. as shown to the aircraft, less with mespect blade the aerodynamic been dcfined, has lcr plane
and response of the characteristics and Thus, the dynamic. for various azimuthal can be calculated loads
not involve these excitations do propeller blades to However, because the as indicated. radial positions
using and can be analyzed nacelle.aircraft system pireence of these the somewhat in the blade deflects
I Π-cxcitetions. as used for the the same analysis of attack, the ac- thereby changes its angle loads and
ow dapig associatedO because of the those for α rigid irom However, udii'ircni tunaakand= asc snighny ft
to place is important modes, it reactionless with these must take loads of the actual computation blade. The
2Π. outsidt of particularly the their critical speeds, of blade load with blade into account the derivative
angle changes.
RANGE 5-8.2.2 Speeds &ad Reqaose Critical
1 1 1 8Π to the vibra- 160 response of the propeller blades The
6PI paarp6sdtriePyth 7,Π/ 8 excitation ORDEq----, I I•C~rAION described tutrl~~1~~/ in the toyaerodynamic ORDER-v' loads ExciTATI0N
paragraph is determined the structural by preceding
DE syst,.μ. 140 mic characteristics of the propeller and dyn
/% the stresses in the in turn, determines The response,
120 barrel. pro- and stresses in the blades and the loads
/ itself. The dynamic char- and the aircraft peller shaft,
-- by are described best of the propeller acteristics .
100 • aerody- various the for speeds critical its defining
- /,/_j φ at rotational speeds orders ι.ε., the namic excitation >.
Z -13; aerodynamic excitation which the frequency of the Σ0
MODE " blade frequency. coincides with α natural propeller
,,6
propeller excitation and relationship of Π-order The
// shown in α critical commonly is blade frequency U-
Α'% propellei 2ND st -η that of Fig. 5-38. speed diagram ds
40 be high dynamic magnifi- critical speeds, there may
rro- the loads. Therefore, cation of the aerodynamic . ' ,',',
iS.... lower, the so that designed be should system peller
20 the within fall not do spees critical stronger,
propelle,. The operating speed range of the operating
0 be seen diagram of Fig. 5-38 may range in the typical
1000 1500 500 0 to 8Π. of critical speeds up to be free
SPEED, rpm PROPELLER propeller system of the The dynamic characteristics
the mode of of blades and upon the number depend
Spea] Diagram Propeller Crical of Ftgure Σ-3. with the aerodynamic order associated vibration
5-60