2. Appropriate valves must bc providod to permit 3tallation of engine(σ), transmission(σ), rotor(σ), and
safe servicing in cam where pimsure is maintained, propeller(σ).
in as pneumatic and hydraulic systems. To the extent practicoble, the helicopter design
3. Electrical connectors must be keyed to pre- should permit complete preflight inspection without
elude incorrect interconnection, and the installation the use of special stands or ladders. Integral nonskid
must prevent arcing and exposure of hot pins, steps, handholds, and work platforms %hould be in-
4. Ground receptacles must be provi&δ to insure corporatod to facilitate maintenance. Similarly, utili-
α common ground and to eliminate any electrical po- ty syftems should have quick-accees provisiorsi so
teatial difference between the helicopter and GSE. that they can serviced be without special GSE. pre-
5. Guards and warnings must be providod in situa- ferably from wround 3evel.
tions where explosive devices are installed or where Arraniements that require special tools or re-
high electurical potentials are present or for other po- moval of other equipment to accomplish an aviation
tmntially sudden and serious hazards. unit level interchauge (removal and replaceni-cnt)
6. Interlock switches and devices must be pro- should avoided. be If it is necessary to place o--ε unit
vided as necessary. behind another, the unit requiring !as-fr•vuent
7. Connections should be quick δ'sconnect type. access should Ze located to the rear. Except for pro,
vibration proof, and not require safetywire. tection, or other valid reasons, equipment requiring
periodic inspection, serice, or replaorment shoulo
15-2.2 ACCESSIBILITY not be placed behind or uider structural members or
The designer should emphasize ease of servicing, other items that arc difficult to remove or that can be
testing, removal, and replacement of all equipment. damaged readily. Equipment should be isolated from
Inaccessible and complex structural arrangements sources of fluids or dir*.
must ,voided. be Moreover. the designer should con- The designer should provide built-in check points
sider sectioning #.he helicopter structure for ease of to simplify the connection of fault-isolating tnsi
ν ntl II . ,IW 64^11ρ.
field. service and maintenance personnel :o accomplish
Except where weight, structural integrity, or stiff- their tasks without working in awkward positicis.
nous are overriding considerations, assemblies sub- Maintenance at the intermediate suppout and de-
ject to pc.riodic removal should be attached with pot levels will involve the use of automatic test equip-
quaick-ι nnect fasteners of an approved type ment (ATE) %-hen this ir feasible and cost-effective.
rather than with bolts or screws. Tool clearance must The helicopter system equipment and components
be provided for installing and removing lines, nuts, must contain the necessary teqt points to interface
bolts, and other fasteners. Where the use of tools is with ATE. End items of equipment should be de-
restricted because of remote locstion, temperature, or signed to have the test woints required to permit per-
other factors, fasteners such α self-locking plate nuts formance evaluation and diagnostic tests - oon-
or anchor nuts sbould be used to allow single sided sistent with the policy of returning the helicopter to
If lubrication is required, fittings must be located placement of modules limited piece-part replace- -
where accas is possible using standard Army OSE ment, and repair of designated direct exchaage (DX)
without the need for special α-lapters. If positional modules by replacement of external parts or use of
adjustments are needed, the design should permit un- authorized repair kits. In tur., modules should have
obstructed adjustment over the complete range of sufficient test points to permit performance evalua-
component movement. tion and diagnostic tests in accordatice with Army
Accessibility for the 5θ to 95θ maintenance per- policies 3nd practices for depot rcpairs.
sonnel should be provided for items subject to pro-
STANDARDIZATION 1&-23 emphasis Similarly. servicing. inspecions and flight
should be placed upon accessibility of all coin- Ground supl on equipment interface designs
ponents subject to normal maintenance. Such items should consider two levels of szondsrdization; include and fill drain plugs, filter elements, valves, I. Equipment lev•;. Standard GSE Items (MIL-
switches, and other field-replaceable assemnbies. HDBK-300 and DA Pamphlet 700-20).
Large, quick-opening acces doors and ample 2. Parts and Materials lavel, Military Standard
space should be provided for servicing of engine ac- (MS, AN, AND, etc.), Military Specification
cemories and replacement of components. The de- Qualified Products Lists (QPL).
signer also should provide for quick removal and in- Such standards should be used in preference to
15-2