эй
requirements of MIL-Σ-8698. Tne critical design cri-
telton gencraliy is the satisfactio-ai of the static test
requirements. Because the integrity of α casting or
forging is governed by the type of quality control es-
tablished by applicable dirawings and specifications,
it is imperative that required static tests be per-
formed on the least acceptable specimens. The radio-
graphic scceptance stsndard ASTM E-155, as well as
other inspection eriteria, tner may be basced upon
these static test results.
Recent Army helicopter RFP requiremrnts have
emphasized inc ascd crew safety through more
crashworthy deugn in accord with the recom-
mendstions of Ref. 100. Limit load conditions are
based upon +3.5 and -0.5 maneuver load factors at
the helicopter CG and ultimate load conditions upon
normal load factors of +20/- 10. and lateral or
longitudinal load factors of ±2τ. Combination
loading also must be considered as the simultancous
occurrence of loadings in accordance with any of the
three conditions that follow:
Condition
Longitudinal ±20 ±10
Verticai +ι0/5+20/-ι0 +16/5
Lateral ±10 ±10 ±20
Where α structural support case is of relatively sim-
ple configuration, forgings are preferred to castings
because of the superior strength-to-weight ratio and
thc inherently lower variability in strength of the
former.
The four design deficiencics found most fre-
quently in current Army helicopter housing com-
ponents are:
1. Insufficient attention to corrosior protection.
Success in attainment of recuirad component life is
highly dependent upon :voraing corrosion. Housing
designs must avoid trag: for water from rain, wash-
down, or conJensasion. Open upward-facing traps.
such as stud or bolt counterbores or scal enclosure
cavities. must be provided with effective drains. Ex-
ternal size of casc joints shouid be mismatched, with
the upper member bring larger so α to eliminate
standing water. Such joists may be seaicd externally
with relative ease by nunnardening. filket-forming
compounds. Sharp edges and oxxgh surfaces must be
eliminated by chamfering. pois: ing. or tumbl
(slurry) de-burring to avoid inadkquate resin or pa.nt
coverage due to surface tensi: : ε "Tects. Caihodic par-
ticles must be remove 3 compkie:υ from casting sus-
faces by thorough ckeaning rrior to resin impreg-
nation.
Galvanic corrosion protertins in ihe form of resin,
acrylic, or zine chromate afalr-nikn should be used

τ χ
AMCP 705-202
between all metals exccpt thosc immediately ad-
jacent in the sctivity serice (MiL-STD-889). Ex-
cessive steady tensile stresses due to assembly clamp
ing such as use of bolted clevis lugs without spacers)
should be avoided to reducr the susceptibility to
stress corrosion.
2. Lack of attention to differential thermal ex-
pansion. Stecl bcaring clamp nuts and similar de-
vices installed in magnesium or aluminum threaded
bores often iose thcir entire sxial clamping force at
operating temperatures. Such applications either
must have an initial deflection that is greater than the
amount of thermal relaxation or eise threaded steel
liners must be snserted in the case bores. Static
bearing and hoop stresses should be checked
throughout thc possible ambient temperature range
alloy cascs are joined with piloted flanges. Thern.ally
fit steel liners in ailoy cascs should have α nominal
300°F interference arsd the bore of the light alloy ring
section surrounding the liner also should show α
positive margin on limit stress at –65°F. Where stecl
bearings are installed in the liner, their line-to-line fit-
up temperature and outer ring cross section must be
considered in celculating ! limit stress. The hoop ton-
sion in thc housing bore fiber at —65°F ass ming the
bearing fit is line-to-line at α temperature of + ?2°F
may be taken as:
Σ, (α2 − α,) (χ2 + 2) χ 365
(δ - 2) +1
μ,
E (σ)
β
502 137 7(4-61)
+1 (6) \α) +1
E ()- E (Gy-1
wherc
α bearing outer ring bore, in.
ь = bearing OD, in.
σ * liner OD (steel), in.
ρ - light alloy -ection OD. in.
Ε - Young'σ modulus, psi
α = lincar coefficient of thermal expansion.
in./in.-F
μ = Poisson'σ ratio, dimensioniess
Subscript 1 = steel properties
Subscript 2 - light alloy propertics
4-65