AMCP Wt-
HELICOPTER TIRES FACTORS FOR TABLE 12-1. LOAD
FACTOR FACTOR INFLATION DIAMETER TIRE OUTSIDE *NORMAL *LOAD
in. 1.59 1.67 AND UNDER 26
1.50 OVER 26 in. 1 Zo
BE APPLIED TO BOTH STATIC AN~Δ DYNAMIC RATINGS *TO
is permissible at static load. tires Type III are where
Ω classified low-speed, low-pressure tires havins width, in. as α -tire
Δ [Mre cross section, and are used whein. good futst.. outside diameter, in. Ξ6
lion capabilities are desired. Vil tire 2.0 anpirical constant, in. Type arm -
This equation been derived analysis of'& has by classified as high-pressure, high-speed utirs with at
smaller cross section than types. VII Type IIl Typo curve faired through teat data from current tire.
Sufficient clearance must provided in the be "ad- tires have α high lateral spring rate, which may be
required to control ground-resonance tecndincics. ing gear drsign to π~event tire chafing against the air- In
addition, their smaller size allows their us,: in high- frame or gear structure under all conditions of.
compound aircraft where limited space within speed loading and operation. establishes the MIL-STD-878
the airframe for gear retraction requires smaller, procedure for determining α the clearances required
in α δ inrrepase tn arowtlh nf firms dx.. Tyme 11; compact tire. For more in deflte'- tires α tire diamefr duaw
centrifugal force. In addition to theiot values, α in- not to exceed 40% is allowed; for VI I tires α tion Type 4%
shall width and height be allowed to of is permitted. Tire. efficiency for cal- crease .ν section 37% deflection
for tirs culation of gear energy absorption taken as 45%. compcnsatr. for the overinflation allowance is
To determine tire stroke under load, α tire deflection used on helicopters. allowance for growth in gross Anl
versus load curve should used. This curve normal- weight (25% minimum) should made when wheel be be
is available ly from the tire manufacturer for any and tire sizes are selected and ar es- 6earwaxos
standard tire size. tablistiod. To provide for such wtight growth. the ad-
α tire load rating of to incrrase the of plies of α ditfon of the ability is the meaure Ground flotetion
and/or dynamic the design suitable for otherwise causing surface without remain upon the tire to
and/or tire change of wheel is acceptable. Α The lods soil under the tire. breakdown or failure of the
can be life of the helicopter during the service sizes arc: ground flotation factors affecting
λ.LoAdUEAUuepe-u Nowir Α--- AA3 orqarc C103sp-toW~ρ
and therefore should structural components airframe 2.Tire pressure
avoided. bc Wheel spacing 3.
4. Strength of surface and subsoil.
Wheel. 12-1.1.. are usually helicopter α requireinent.~ fifr Flotation
notch sma- that affect whorl design include Thic. usually is Factors upon its primaxy miasion. * dependent
due to corrosion, hecat damage sitivity. fatigue, ['caring Ratio (CBR) value as α California *specified
to disintegration due braiking, and wheel ca sestained numnber of patses the hel1icopter coupled with the
dhe use of practice is to xpecify tire failure. Current surface occues. The before failure the of make
(usually 2014-Τ6) alloy materials forged aluminum capabifities of α or the flotation analysis Df method
is not desirable designs. Cast magnesium in Ref. for new surfaces is discussed helicopter on xicprepared
and its corrosion to of its susceptib~lity decel- because note that the imrortant to it is additiona~ll'v 1;
2 upon fail~ire. or shatter tindency to fragment fox ft/sec be 6 should due xo braking rate eration
xesled shall designed and be wheels R-elicoplte rotary-winil aircraft. to
for tated load The of MIL.Ω-5013. the requirements contact tire for 6eternhing priwise method mcre Α
shall maxi- than the equal to or greater be the wheel is area ti
mum static to which the wheel will be subjected load
grots weight, which towing or alternate at rcxaxiinum
(12-1) Α, ever is greter. Roll 2.0 WD,inl.' tests be for 250 mi woin- shall -
12-4