706-202 AMCP
cular crosslinking of both materi.Js by the high- requirements. Thus, the selection of a connector for a
,nergy electronic beam process. These consiructions specific application will involve a compromise.
provide significant space and weight savings while re- M IL-C-5015 covers circular electrical connectors
tSining excellent abrasion resistance, ac- with solder or removable crimp contacts, and
MIL-W-25038 covers single wire for electrical use cessorics such as protective covers, storage re-
under short-time emergency conditions involving ex- ceptacles, strain relief clamps, and potting molds.
posure to flame and temperatures of up to 2000*F. These connectors arc for use in electronic, electrical
This wire is intended for use in circuits where it is power, and control c-ircuits. They have threaded
,necessary to maintain the electrical irtegrity of the in- couplings, and may require safety wiring in order to
sulated conductor for 5 min in a 2000*F flame with eliminate inadvertent decoupling in high-vibration
the operating potential not exceeding 125 V. areas.
MIL-C-26482 covers environmental-resistance,
"7-8.2 FITTINGS quick-disconnect, miniature electrical connectors
and ac- contacts removable crimp or with solder include any fix- area, and cover a broad Fittings
bayonet couplings connectors ha'e cessories. Thes are termi- Two basic fittings to a wire. ture attaching
wire. safety not require and do strips and connectors. nal
MIL-C-83723 covers an environmental-re3isting
7-8.2.1 Termhna Strips family of miniature, circular, electrical connectors.
strips These ;:onnectors may have threaded or bayonet
Termina! strips are used where there is a require- couplings.
gd inr c Terminal wires. more or two of junction a for ment panel and rack rectangular covers MIL-C-28748 inap- diconcct aso ay a ued e stris
strips also may be used as disconrects in ap- and electrical connectors with nonremovable solder
plications where :'t is impractical to use a connector, cnat n eoal rm otcs contacts. removable crimp and contacts pro- maintenance and assembly simplify or to
or, .ts ly sb nMIL-C-39012 covers the general requirements for
co- fiexibie with used connectors frequency radio ~ ~ ~ ~ or ~ ~ ~ ~ 27212 MS is the terminal etrip standard The The temiablrpesth.S 712 xa stndr
MIL-T-81714 which consists of a series of threaded axial RF cable.
studs retained in a plastic insulating strip. Each ter- The designer make every effort to select only shall
termination common provide that connectors ter- four of a maximum accommodate will stud minal
hard- back common contacts, common i.e., methods; between used be may bar a bus minals; however,
tools and methods assembly commor, and ware, wiles four than more for allow order to - in studs
guide. a as using MIL-STD-1353 junction. common a having
The new NAS standard terminal strip, which con-
sists of series of modules rctainei between mounting 7-9 LIGHTNINC( AND STATIC
rails, offers maity advantages over the old style MS ELECTRICI'TY
terminal strip. MIL-T-81714 covers environmental 7-9.1 GENERAL feedthrough and srifi tef Fror noni'mr.dilzrough ii,,l ips.
is of electronic systems The proper functioning accordance parts in be new designs qualified shall
with MIL-T-81714. This type of unit is similar to an taking on increased importance in mission effective.
•loctrical connector in concept in that it uses a crimp ness and flight saf.ty with the development of elec-
pin, and in insertion-extraction tool for installing the tronically controlled, automatic flight and engine
wires, controls. Thus, the common occurrence of total elec-
Each terminal strip requirement must be evaluated trical system failure ft'om lightning strikes is no
individually in order to determine which of the type longer acceptable and a higher degree of static elec-
can be used best. tricity and lightning prottction must be provided for
the helicopter in order to ussure reliable, safe, and ef-
fective operation over its operational lifetime.
"74.2.2 Conmetors One lightning strike can ft expected to occur on a
as The ideal situation, as far reliability is con- helicopter approximately e-.cry 2500 flight hr (Ref.l),
) cerned, is to have continuous conductors throughout depending upon aircraf zone of operation, mission.
the entire circuit. However, this usually is not pus- normal flight altitudes, susceptibility, etc. Minor to
si•': interconnects must be added to facilitate serious structural damage cav result in cases where
assembly and maintenance. The designer must select protection is not provided.
the connector that best combines high-performance New materials, such as pbolyurethane paints. have
factors with capabilities for meeting env'ronmental many advantages relative to corrosion protection;
7-29