5-9.4 INSTALLATION CONSIDERATIONS
During design of the tail rotor, consideration shall
be given to the actual installation on the vehicle in
determixing the roquired thrust. The rotos may be
designod to operate with the tail fin downstrcam
(tractor configurvion), or with the fin upstream
(pusher configuration). The rotational axis of the tail
rotor also may be canied with respect to the fin to ob-
tain α life component from the thrust vector. The
locetiou of the rotor wil! have been selccted to pro-
vide adequate clearance from the ground and othes
pats of ihe helicopter, and with provisions for the
safety of ground personnel (see Chapter 13, AMCP
706-201).
5-9.4.1 Tractor Coafiguration
In the tractor configuration, the fin produces α
blockags that causcs α thrust loss. Teats (Ref. 58) in-
dicate that the net thrust available to satisfy helicop-
ter requirements may be cstimaicd from
Tar = ρ(1 0755) 4
Τ- thrust for control and antitorque, Ib
Σ/Α*= ratio of disk arce blocked by the fin te
total disk arca, dimensionless
5-9.4.2 Parber Configuration
In the pusber installation, the production of thrust
creates negative pressures on the řν and tail boom on
the side adjacent to the rotor. The integral of thesc
pressures over the affocted arca produces α force that
must be subtracted from the rotor thrust. This force
can run as high as 20% of the tail rotor thrust, but can
be reduced by incrcasing thc axial distance between
the rotor and the fin. At α distance corresponding to
60% of the tail rotor radiue, this lcss is only :-2%. The
effect of distance for both tractor and pusher config-
urations is shown in Fig. 5-51, taken from Ref. 58.
It is possible to dasign the pusher configuration
with lower losses than occur in the tractor installa-
tion. However. because of flow blockage, rotor per-
effocts. Therefore, the pusher configuration should be
usod with caution.
5-9.4.3 Operational Consideratione
Whag the tail rotor is opersting at σ yaw rat., 8
moment is roquirod to procras the gyroscopic forces.
This moment is α function of yaw rate . tail rotor
anguiar velocity 8, and polar moment of inertia Ip.
and muat be produced by aerod namic forces applied
90 dog sbrad of the Girection oi precession in the casc
of rotors with flapping blades. This is accomplished

AMCP 706-202
by α lag of the tip path plane with respect to the con-
trol axis, which producs an equivalent to cyclic
feathering. As α result, one side of the disk is loaded
more highly than the other; if biade stall is cr.-
countered, the additionai preceasional moment muat
bc produced by the unstalled side. This effectively
roduces the thrust capability of the tail rotor. The
rotor blade mnuet be sized to operate at lift coeffi-
cients below the value for stali throughout the
opcrsting range. Thc increased loading caused by
rotor preccssion must be provided for in this sizing.
The effocts of operation sn α side wind alsc must be
considered on the basis of α uniform variation of
thrust with pedal position. When rotor-induced ve-
locity approaches sideward velocity, the rotor will en-
counter the vortex ring state. This characteristic,
shown on Fig. Σ-52 (froin Ref. 58). gives undesirable
flying qualities and generally is avoided by pilots. It is
prcferablc that the induced velocity (disk loading) be
sufficiently high that the vortex ring statc is not ap-
proached until sideward valocity excceds 35 kt.
(5-21) 5-9.4.4 Direcition of Rotation
When the helicopter is in rearward flight ncar the
ground, the characteristics of α tail rotor installation
designed with ihe top biadc moving forward produce
undesirable flying qualities. The tail rotor can en-
counter α large ground vortex produced by the main
rotor, which causcs ncarly α 20% decreasc in tail rotor
AH-1Γ - 25
Σ/Α = 0.264
20
-15 AH.1Γ
UH-1C Σ/Α = 0.140 10 FIN FORCE, % THPUST
UH-1C
UH-1Δ
Σ/Α = 0.136 5
UH-1Δ
0.8 0.4 0 0.4 80
TRACTOR PUSHER
Figare 5-Σ1. Fin Separation Distance/Rotor Radius
5-79