to mporais the goars. In che cxaen-
oparation α tbe сж ι condicions
eie tenti would bave to be cut
diaqeiers) aad/or tibc outsidc
Je:Σ aqs Sugpuyds on neageaie
sars Sy σ total of 0.013 in.
qoas geop o σ us u
arings oa α radial clesrance baais snd for
bearings, coapidoring coatact ang!es, on α
diel and axial beain. Radinl growta characteristics
in beerings and gears and the efects of dry running
are provensed in Ref. 38. Optimum design for mini-
mem friction loes ia gears and bearings is covered in
par. 4-2.2.
To operaie α geas or Daering at temperatures of
soo°F sad sbove, st is neocuary that thc component
be fabricsted (rom anaterial(σ) that exhibit α
reaponable tolarance to bigh icmperature. Materials
α # AMS 6675 (Nitreio; N) and AMS 6490 (Μ-
Σ0) are well suited to the purpose. AMS 6490 ex-
Mibits cxcalrat bot hardaces ckaracteristics and has
proven to be one of the most fatigue resistant beazing
atarials availabic. AMS 6475 is & precipitation
herdeaing material widcly wed in helicoptes gouring
The more commson geer and bearing materiais, AMS
6265 snd AMS 644, respectively. do not have hich
bot bardnass ciaracteristics, but they can withstand
modarate loads for α short period. Fail-safe opera-
tios for 30 min can be obtained using AMS ¿265 and
AMs 6444 gears and bearings, but the applications
are limited to moderate power leveis and speeds.
Boaring cages are also critical to tie design of fail-
safe bearings. Bronze and plastic materials are not ac-
coptablc for fail-safe operation. Thc characteristic
failure mode for α bearing with α bronze cage is me-
chanical plating of the broaze onto the rolling elc-
ments vich immediate loss of running clearanre and
temperature instability, followed by seizure. Plastic
such as nylon, Teflon (tetrafiluoroethykene) and
fiberglass offer littc resistance to feilure at elevated
tomperatures. Carbon graphite is an excellent cage
material for dry operation, but its tensile strength is
too low for normal use. Msnufacturing probiens and
scrap rates are significant; carbon cages can be ar-
morod with steel reinforcing rings and side plates but
the cost is quite high. The smost adaptable cage
material st the present time appears to be inild steel
with silver-plated pockets. Dry friction between the
rolling elements and the silver-plated cagc is
moderate, and the stocl retains adequate strength for
this appiication. Clarances are necessarily α very im-
portant part of the cage design. Outer-land-riding
4-38

cages offa ühe riaks of entrapping slag-type debris
bstweos the cage and the outer laund, with fracture or
seizure povaiblc, while inner-land-riding cages risk
loes of cleerksce due to therwsal differentials between
the cage and thse iancr ring of the bearing. The most
difficult cage desiga is socn in bigh speod bcarings. It
is desirabie, especially in roller bearings, to providc
inner-land-riding cagcs with inner rizg through-
lubrication to makc maximuen advantagc of the trac-
tion force vectors. Alo. it is desirabk to minimize
guicing-land-to-cage cicarance frum α dynamic
balance stundpoint. Therefore, if aormal high spoed
design parameters are followed, risk of scizure or
-do γ po -..
tiza.
Sevaral mepns of augmenting lubrication or sup-
plying lubricant aficr loss of thc primary oil sysiers
ihat may be developed arc:
1. Inclusioa inside rotating shafts of high mclting
point lubricant that mclts and fiows into bearings and
onto gears afte dry running commerces
2. Providing oil traps with metering holes
3. Wicking oil into bearings from oil absorbing
materiais
4. Encagsulcting lubricant in containers with best
5. Provigting auxiliary (idier) gcars of oil ab-
sorbing or dry lubricant material to mesh with power
gears.
45 ACCESSORIES
4-5.1 PAD LOCATION AND DESIGN
CRITERIA
On small helicogters the accessories may consist
only of an oil pump, hydraulic pump. tach generator,
and cooier fan. À simpic co-axiai airangement of oii
pump, tach generator, and hydraulic pump as on the
OH-Σ8Α may be the most effective means of ar-
ranging an aaxessory drive. The accessories are driven
by α concentrated contact spiral bevel pinion
powered by the input bevel gear.
On medium weight helicopters. where system re-
dundancy may be required, multipic accessory pads
usually can be provided on the main gearbox. Hy-
draulic pumps for primary control actuation must oe
located at widely Cisplaced locations to thwart loss of
both systems to α single small arms bullet. The size of
the main gearbox normally will be adequate to allow
such displacement while stilt providing pads for
generators, tach drive, etc. Accessibility for main-
tenance must still be α prime critericn for location.
On large helicopters the most effective means of
providing acccssory drives normally is fro • gear-