*AMC,
- -component when it breaks φ(we).
*. Proper performance of scheduled maintenance
tasks such as inspection and servicing is dependent
some extent upon acsuibility and convenience,
Inspections that are convenient and of α
nature are likely to be performed time aid cin
accuracy; thut require considerable those
tive judgment may bc missed or interpreted
reedly,
For example, the presence of vital fluids in all
boxes, transmissions, and other reservoirs should
discernible from ground level without opening
complex cowlings. Min-max oil levels should
to eliminate the nccd for topping off, and
minimum level should be exactly one or two
below the maximum whenever possible to
courage the practice of saving α quart half of oil in
open can. The minimum level should be such
allow completion of several additional hours
operation at the maximum likely oil consumption
rate so as to eliminate the need for adding oil
the level is near minimum,
While accurate values of maintenance times
transmission and drive system components are
,v, , ,au ν,,ll) ,λ.,,Wpf..,, * 5 Σ•.,,τ'.τ Σ data are helpful in identifying present troubleome U.flI,,=FE,.
areas. Table 4-1 presents maintenance workload
tots relative to drive subsystems (Ref. 33).
HELICOPTERS US ARMY 4-1. TABLE
DRIVE SYSTEM AND TRANSMISSION
(Ref. WORKLOAD MAINTENANCE
-
*OR LOAD RATING K
I ,V PRO6LEMTITLE I I VERY
II LO* U Α HG LOW[ 4 4
SHAFT DRIVE ROTOR TAIL
Ξ INPUT SHAFT DORIVE ocoincident OH Σ TAIL ROTOR DRIVE ,SHAFT
GEAROTO ξ TAIL
I IU
Ξ SHAFT DRIVE INPUT
Ail IG
ξ I,'LUT SEAL OIL OUILL
("1 4?I
OR SY NCHRONIZ IVE ING
ξ SHAF I
OIL PRESSURE
TRANSDUCERS
54 CH
OIL COOL ER ASSE MBLY V LC GEARBOX MAIN "INPUT Ξ SEALS CARBON
Ξ ROTOR AL;Y SEAL DRAKE
ROTOR BRAKE SLJPPORT V Ξ ASSEMBL - ξ ROTOR DRAKE DISK
ROTOR BRAKE PUCKS

706-2012
rankings given reWate primarily to other maintenance τ
', factors on the specific helicopter listed, and are not to
to be interpreted as relating the workload on one bali-. ,'.
copter model to that of another. -- τ
go-no-go
with 4-1.1.4 Survlivabllly
quantita- Survivability in transmission and drive syste.
incor- operation may be defined as the capability to sus-
stain damage without forced landing or mission abort
* gtar- and to continue safe operation for α specified period
be of time, usually sufficient to rctunn to home base or,
of as α minimum, to friendly territory. The damage may
be used occur from either internal component failure due to
the wear, fatigue, or use of α deficient or inferior com-
quarts ponent; or α hit by hostile forces. The current Army Α
dis- requirements generally define the period of time for
an safe operation after damage as α minimum of 30 min ι -
as to at conditions within the maximum power and load
of envelope, except in the case of total loss of the lubri-
K cation subsystem; the acceptable maximum power
when level for safe operation upon loss of lubrication is
generally reduced to that required for sustained flight
for at the maximum range speed at sea level standard ¾
not condition.
Survivability tollowig com.pOont internal failure π-ua.aavu
can be enhanced through such detail design practices
fac- as identification of primary failure modes, and using
The configurations and arrangements to asure kindly
failure modes and to limit φ-ilure progression rates.
me- or the elimination to be given must also Attention -
failures causad by primary tardation of secondary ONLY
failure j.3sitive for providing and to debris, failure 23)
detsection long before α critical condition is reached.
j Safe operation with this type of damage normally can
100 be achieved for durations of 30 to hr. Design
techniques applicable to this goal are discussed in
44.3. and 4-2.4. 4-2.1, pars.
Survivability in cases of combat hits is considered
with the reduction of vulnerability. Nor-
nial is to design α complete helicopter sur- practice
vivability-vulnerability program plan in accordance
elements many include plan will λ. This ADS-I with
peculiar to the transmissici and drive system. Α good
program plan requires the active participation of the
responsible transmission and drive system design ac-
tivity to assure practicable approaches with miniriun
penalties in &!ive system performance, weight, and
Ξ
cost.
and the helicopter detectability of Reduction
defeat of specified ballistic threats are important ele-
ments in vulnerability redt tion. With regard to de-
tectability, the primary area of concern in the cas of
the drive system is noise Wpar. 4-1.2.1.1.4). While the
mower irquency noise levelsare basically associatd1