AAMV: R* 202
The minizturized check valve. with its inberant
bow-inertis, high-respone checarterisics, can be
usod quila effectively to koup transic.ts of one sub-
systemn fros imporing usnecessary. botentiatly
damaging dresses on the other subaystems. Far. 9.
3.2.6.I contains further discussion of chnck vaives.
5-2.7.9 Preseare Fariectes
The preusz:e switch gencrali; is uscd to operate a
system failare waming lighi in the sockpi:. The
awitches may be scnsitive to either absolute or ciffer-
ential pressures. The abtolutr or atmosphe.si:
pressure-rriated type grnerally is used. A sesiraßsia
fenture of chis type is ins ability to retain ahe sysie
fuid if the fuid scal fails, dy csing tix case as a
pressure vessei.
9-2.7.14 Psexsare Transnitters
Prescase eraissmitiers are required in crtder to con-
vert puessu-e in n clectrica! signal vor transmiszion
to tt- cchpit in oriee to pro:e the pilot wit s
visual ndi.azior of tie Eystem pressurer. Althaogh
MS standard unitz orc available. they an: largt.
heavy. and obzniete. Niininiarizeá. stsie-of-ia-ati
units. whick ala provice a icl-saf: feature. are
availabie. The trsnsnister case cf such a unit is
designad to tolerte full systan pressuns, thus ehmi-
natin:g loss of the sys*em when (h sensing: &nig fais as
a presure vessel. Tha Ms standiard unit roguirea a
psessure transieat suubbing devia for p.otectios,
plus a fuse in the evert the sersing sievice fails: :be
improves. minaturired unias do not necd snubbe:s
and fuses.
9-2.7.13 Conttu! Seircter Vahes
The &lector valves fos nonmodularing conti o) of
subsystems may be operated eithes manu:lly or elec-
trically. Mil.-H-8775 covars 2heir desigr reguire-
men*s. Valve? niay be ciassed as nontrail, full-trail, or
half-traii. The "trail" indirates whather thr cylindet
of subsystem eperating poris are connectet t return
when the valvc it in ihe neus,al-prezsure blocked
position. The vaive is in the fuil-trs il condition if Ue
operating po:1s ave connrcte3 to retusn. Fig. 9-36 is a
sehematic representation of thz variou: trzil con-
ditions.
The vzives may hawe fc. Ihree, or four com-
r q: :
havt more pozitious. Fig. 9-37 sbows examples of the
two-. ihrce. and four p.sitior vaives.
The vaivez nay bc two. rte-, tour-, five-way, or
more. The “nay* reiert to the numtxz of ponis o’ bc.
valve. A co.figu:ztion with sever.l outlrt Sosscs for
9-22

PRESSURE PAESURE PRESSUNÉ
RE T0%R RETURN MALF - TQAII. FULI.-TRAIL RE 100,04
5UK:RAIL
Fizaar A. tydrorik Vane "Tra" Conskgaatian3
POPRE SSIRE
DE-ERZRCIZED EISRGIZEO
IA)TWO.POSITION VR:VE
RERGIZED POSITION MO I DE ENERCIZEL к ENERGIZCO FOSITICN MO. 2
(E - THREt -POSITION VAL VI
DEENLRIZEU ENERGIZED FOSITION ND 3
ENERGIZE D POSITION NC. 2 ENERGIZED POCITION 1) 1
:FCUR-POSITION VALVE
Figure 9-37. Hydrselic Vst7e Coufigesratku.ss
one reiurn section in a mnanifold would be counted as
one-way.
Tra valves may be either pilot- or dircct-Jpu:nses.
Staging. using pisor varves. is fequisei in order to
handle large fanons efectively and efücisitly. Figs. 9.
38 and 9.3s present schemeics oi boih contrg
modes.