“
LIST OF SYMROLS
4 - realè dampiag: dericative of rolling mome
witin roq:ect to roll dstx; R-β/rad-ooc
Λ dibodrei stability: durivative of rolling mo-
ment wità roapuce to yaw angk Α-ib/sad
- roil contrel aansitévity: derivative of rotling
mostassat wina voapect to control input,
R-ib/is.
pitch dempiog: derivesive of pitciaing mo-
ment with raapect (o pich russ, fi-it!
rd-ox
- ssod aability: derivative of pitckiag nro-
snant wiah reapect to forwsrad velcity:
Α-β/fp
α pitch scabrility: dasivative of pitmdina mo-
maod wits raspect 'o pilcht anglt, Α-lb/red
Disca consrol sensin.vity: Cerivative of
pitchinag momart wità repect lo control
iapeas, il -lb/in.
– yau Gampiog: derivstive of yaving mo-
mant wilh raspest so yaw rate, falb/radl-eer
Nρ yaw stolsility: derivative of ya wisg inoment
with roapoci to yaw angk, Α-ib/rad
= yaw cantroi sensitivity: derivative of yaw-
ing moment vith respect to control inpue,
R-λ6/in.
λ – number of pitch Fnks, diensionkess
- aurader of nonredundant cmpenents
having the failure rate F,
- nureber sf rafundant components having
θ: failure rate Π,
- number of nonredundent cotapunients
having the failure tate Π,
= nunter of redundant comsponents having
the fuilure rate Π,
Π - fcilure rate of ugsregate of components,
hr-1$
– dyoanuic preseurc, poi
verticat damping: derivative of vertical
force with rerzect to verticel velocity,
ib/fps
Z, α vertical control scnsitivity: derivativc of
vertical force wish recpect to contro: input,
it/in.
5 - demping rotio, dimensioniess
α gencralizest rointios about α:.υ axis, rud
Ω = rotationc! apeed, rad/sec
- uaoamped iatural frequvncy. rad;scc
- Latural frequency of inplanc (lcud-log) mo-
tion of rotor blade, rad/asc

CHAPTER
FLIGHT CONTROL SUBSYSTEM
*
6-1 CENERAL
leiing α bel bicka bas baur
shown to satiafy tibe guneral stabilnty
siated in Chapter 6. AMCP 706-20:, isto α refiapd
configuratioa that monts the miasion flying-quelity
requirensnts. Thbe paragraphs that foibow discues tiec π
infiuence of helicopter siability roquiremonts upos
tibe deail design of the fight coatrol syutuan.
6-1.1 DESICN METHOD
The airframc maruafacturer — aeting as the syatom
intogrator of airframe, coatrols, andi stability aug-
mentatior subaystom — should condsct inerative
and/or corapetitive traio-off studios. Thcse studiee
wili evaluate the performance, cost, safety. ruliability.
and maintenance charecteristics of one or sevorai
const: ol syssenes as they rolate to thc mirsior soquine
ments &ad fight path stability spocifications refurred
to within this chapier.
Σ-1.1.ι Poinr ef Departure
Tys calìυ, tioe preliminary daign seauts in α defisi-
tion of the flight controls and α first ectinsatr of
stability augmentatios: subsystez: characteristics thal
are believed to be sufficient to germit conpliance of
the hebicopter wirh the stability and conirel apeci-
fications. Thece pi iminery design dints inctud:: con-
tre' kinemstics as lirats on rotor blade or saro-
Gynamic controi surfare travel, geueral arrangenuent
of controls, and ncchanical aornntages. The pao
liminary cesign serves as σ base point tromn vhicks
desigr alte stionz are proposei for ine purpose of im-
provng systen capabiliy, relixbility, sraintaingbili-
iy. and cost. Thexe design alternatives then are sub-
jxted to α detail design trade-off etudy for assess-
meat. Typical considerations to he revievve δ arc:
φ. The level of helicopter stability required, wish or
without &ugmentation
2. The parameters that should be controlled, and
tl ε charactesistics of these control loo;σ
3. The automatec tasks or autopiloi (pilot relicf)
functions that shouid be provided
4. The need for mezeuver augmentation to pro-
vide satisfactory hekicopter response to pilot control
inputs as well as to external áisturbances
5. Thc usc of single, dual-, or multichunnel to
dundant systems; augmentation aciussor locatio.3;
and whether augmeristion inputs should τ. in series
with or peralicl to the gilot'σ inputs
6-1