fits recomrmended the in the manufacturer'σ catalog.
Wises (leas clearance, or greater beavie,- rats
terfmrnacs) to prevent an creeping, bearing α ν-Aded
with increased inteirnal clearance must be used
ord.' to avoid pruloadin3 the bearing radially. The
change in inmernl clearance due to interference
for both ball and bearings can calculated be ioller
or housings the by equations: following Aialls astel
dk5 (16-10) /~IC
- Shaft K ) Fit UJAX + 1 2
tAlC Μ (Kj 1) - 3
Housing Ffit + des(1-lKK? 3 4
and are as Kj:, MI. wheat defined, Rqj, previouIsly Ml 2
dimen- in interior clearance. change and tAlC -
sionluas, and:
I 3'radial +
dOess (16-12) K 2 . 3
3 -
I +Μ!
U 24 4
wba-eguided
ratio of inner diamewe of bearing outer Μ3~
ring to beaiing outer diameter,
dimensionless
 ratio ofbecarins outer diameter to *he - Ml 4
housing outer diameter, dimensionless
The changes in internal clearance due to shaft and
housing fits are added. The lowest range of initial
clearances will give positive running α *.Λ61τ clearance
θ.-I
Additional information on the selection, design,
and installation of both rolling elemenrt and sliding
bearings can be found in Ref. 5.
Dewings to subjected high loads or speeds must
provided with sufficient quantities of lubricant
mainta~ν α satisfactory heat balance and avoid they-
mal damage to the contact surface4. Grease lubrica-
tion or splash-type oil lubriuation is satisractory
bearings operatirg moderate speeds in areas where it
the heat rejection charactoristics of the bearing
housing are favorable. For higher speeds or -
potetially high-temperature areas splash, jet, -
ariar oil lubfication usually is necessary, often with
the incorpoation of an oil cooler.
For heavy loads, the use of high-viscosity
lubricants. or of lubriants formulated with extreme
presusre additives, often is necessary. High-tempera-
tunt applications, such as in engines or in high-speed
164

ε~ngn redu.-tion gearboxes, may require the use of J
syqtheticobase lubricantxz the eater of type. Thene syn- in-
thetic lubricants advantage good also provide the of
low-temperature performance. in The characteristics of
many types applicable lubricants, as well as of
descriptions of lubrication systems. in Ref. rats given are
for 6.
16-3.2 BALL BEARINGS
used in aircraft 'float widely type of bearing Τ1he
applicationis is the ball Learing. Ball bearings can be
classified in three categories: tadial, angular contact,Α
thrust. and
Radial Ball 16-3.2.1 Bearings
configuratioia is the single-row, The most common
supporting bearing. is capable of ball Ut deep-rroove
and light thrust loads in either both radial loads
direction while operating at high speeds. While most
tolei- to ABEC-λ are produced ball bearings
ance&, higher pr beorings, such as ABEC-3, mcision -5,
-7, or are available .- 9, foi very high-speed
applications in those areas where shaft location and
The hearino- in θ~ε Uniher rtn~nitt sire citical, trades
of typically retainers, better-quality contatin usually
machined bronze. addition, In these retainers are
by on~ε of the bearing raca, rather than beir4γ
positioned the balis., by thus further improving the
high-speed performanice of the bearings. Pre-
lubricated radial ball equipped with shields ýexrings
or seals are available for rease- lubricated γ
applications.
Because the radial ball bearing is assembled hy
.. radially displecing the inner and outer rings and then
packing the balls into the resulting annular space, the
I o~φ β!-. in num-β*τ*-λ*Jr I--in*. ;cH--^. number of balls in tbe bearing, and hence the load
capacity, can increased be the by use α filling of
notch, α counterbored inner or outer ring, α circum-
be ferentially split inner or outer ring, or α fractured out-
to cr ring. These features yield bearings having
calculated capacities that are substantially greater
than those of normal, deep-groove bearings of the
for same size. However, each of these tochniques has its
limitations. filling Α notch limits the of α ability
bearing to support thrust loads, bectause the balls
in contact the notch. Counterboring α bearing ring
or results in α beating that can support thrust loads only
in one di- therefore, such bearings generally ".ion;
are used in pairs (see par. 16-3.2.2). Bearings with α
circumnferentially split ring should used only in ap- be
plications having thrust load sufficient α to prevent
the balls from riding on the split. Lastly, bearings
with α fractured outer ring should used to sup- be aot