event, each helicopter design must be asscesed indi-
vidually in conducting the system installation :rade-
off.
9-2.8.5 Miscellanrous *- stalatice Corsideratioas
Components requiri:. frequent msintenance shall
be sccossibl. Such units as fiuid-driven air compres-
sors, pumpe, and filters must have unusually good
accees in order to aliow adequste servicing.
Componcnts that require frequent majntenance,
such as filterz and pncumatic chemical driers, shall be
mounted rigidly in order to avoid damage during ser-
vicing.
Natural dirt-collecung areas, such as brake vaives
under ihe cockpit ficor. shall be considered in pian-
ning sysiem insiallation.
À iypical exampkc of improper instal'ution is
routing of lines through a whecl-well ares, where
leaking air can csuse strumming of both normal and
energency lines. Autachment of lines to a panei that
may vibrate will have a similar effect. Proximity to a
common fire hazard alzo raust be avoided. Separa-
tion of lines shall be accomplished after consideration
of all environmental hazards.
The designer shall avoid instaliations in which an
enginc mount failure csn drop the engine on crice:l
lines or components and thereby increase the
poauibility of losing the helicopter.
S-2.9 MISCELLANEOUS DESIGN CRITERIA
Industry experience vith previous hydraulic
systans and componente has revealed many πiscel-
lancous design aspects thet shall be considered. The
paragraphs that follow present some of thesc con-
siccrations.
9-2-9.1 Actuators and Associated Equiprment Design
For protection against dynamic shaft seal failures,
the designcr should consider usc of dual seals, with a
return vent incorporated between the seals (Fig. 9.
4).
The design of the electriçal system with regard to
cioctrohydraulic: servo valves shall avoid dither
signais tbat cause valve oscillation and actuator dy-
namic seal wear. Protection against clectromagnetic
interference susceptibility shali be required.
Liakage pivots on flight control actuators, con-
sisting of friction-held journal bushings with looce
tolerances, require critical shimming in order to ob-
tain the elignment neccssary for frec operation. Ball-
bearing pivots, with provisions to prevent overtor-
quisg and operating in system return Nuid, are
preferred in order to prevent binding of control-valve
linkage.

AMCP 706-202
The design of actuator valving shouid include pro-
visions to prevent fluids being trapped at the ends of
the main controi-valve spool.
Actuator pistons shall nor bottom against internal
actuator stops during autopilot (stability augmenta-
tion) input, coupled with the extremes of manual in-
put and rigging end manufacturing tokerances.
Erratic stabifity augmentation inputs during taxiing
can cause excessive loads duc to hammnering against
stop. This condition shall be taken into account
during testing. as well as in design.
Internal hydraulic stops in cylinders shall incorpo-
rate ssubbing. or shali bc sxrengthened sufficiently to
prevent fatigue loading failures (Fig. 9-45). Rigging
alone should not be considered in order to prevent
fatigue loading. However, the designer should
emphasize the rigging of controls to stick-stcp limits
to avoid actuator bottoming.
To prevent blow-by, Teflon piston seals should be
-rennn
matically. Piston rings shall be used on piston heads.
Appropriate seals should be considered for long-
stroke, large-bore actugtor cylinder applications to
añleviate chances of roiling and subsequent danage to
seals.
VENTEO
TO RE TURN
Figure 9-44. Dual Scals With Return Vent
SNUBBING
Figure 9-45. Hydraudic Seubbing for Iuterna! Stops
9-27