AW 70&202
avoided should be solenoids (holding) Split-coil
valve desijln. Upreliab,lc operation, caused
aettings starting-coil switch and malfunctions,
usually solenoids. This problem in overheated
weight lower rides such desirable features as the
split-coil designs.
Servo-valve-cover deflections or shocks can
valve manfunctions if the cover ih mounted upon
semro valve motor instead of the main valve
Adequate clearance between cover and motor
effects be provided in order to minimize of
dents. Covers should be of ungged design.
Hydraulic presure surges du- to valve spool
may prevented be by the use of slow valving
band) quate dead or electric time delay.
valves, operated of eloa.trically case In thr
sideration given be to valve positioning, and shall
the effect upon the system should electrical power
applied inadvertently to two electrical inputs doe
shorting, etc. Relays can insure predictable operation
this abnormal situationpower in
hyd in eme abnormaulc odesign uen.υ
Hydraulic emergeno cy oveboard dump pssal vaiv
have sufficient flow cap&city to avoid back pressure
divert can dsigns, system. some in θ-τ, buildup
and valves selector through reservoi. the to
result may reservoir to the fluid Directing valves.
reservoir overpressurization and failures under
taD conditians.
SDifferential arca vent sc~λ wear ad leakage can
cur fron plunger normal fnation system fiuiring
pressure fluctuations. Long-li;ε seals, or valve designs
incorporating little or no plunger motion during
are desirable, fluctuation, pressure system mal
leakage internal valves, half.trail of case the In
when in the neutral half-trail position should
evaluated for its effects upon subsystem operation.
When leakage from cylinder pressure to blocked
is greater than leakage from block cylinder port
return, pressure buildup in the blocked circuit can
cur, resulting in unwanted loads motion or in
blocked circuit. Excessive leakage from the blocked
cylinder port to return can result in unwanted motion "• external loads. from
from xteral lads.The High-pressure tests with return ports capped
result in overpressurization of components.
return proof pressure rquirement should be
patible with system operating pressure,
-ρ -π
Lubrcation 9-2.9.12
Experience indicates that graphite-loaded grease
tends to dry up in high-temperature antifriction
bearing applications, leaving α residue of hard graph-
function. proper bearing with itc that interferes
9-32

_____________________
Λ protected. .ala/λ and be labri-ated joints All critical in
compatible by The lubricant must be with oiling.
results Lubrication of mechanisms that located in α Are
jemmlWg as α can result in area over- high-temperature
of result of burned oil carbon.
component Left- and right-hand lubrication fit-
shall cause tings shall be multiple, or be located so as to be
the accssible.
body. Long lubrication paths result in frozen irease and
should blocked fittings.
minor- Unclamped monoball bearirigs must have two
grease fittings in order to insurv proper lubrication
ID and OD. shift on both
(ade-
SYSTEMS PNEUMATIC 9-3 con-
to 9.3.1 PNEUMATIC SVSTEM DESIGN
be Te decision to us α compressed ε rather than gas
pressurized liquid as to α working medium in fluid α
during poer tediminafy lisysemas α
during the preliminary system is made ontrol
phase. The various tradc-offt to be considered
in making the choice are presented in Chapter 9,
AMCP 7 The paragraphs that 7-201, follow describe pneumatic- α for onsiderations design detail the fluid
check
system. in
cer- 9-3.1.1 Systo Analysis ι
The design and aialysis of α pneumatic system
oc- become considec'ably involved when nonlinearities
are considered. The derivation of α mathematical
model describing the physical phenomena of corn-
nor-
fluid the where -- system α through fluid prssible
in changes epansionu, restrictiorfc through passes
dire, tion, etc. proves difficult and results in cume- --
be . •_ε.uat.o. .
For example, the flow within the system, or the
port pressure drop, will vary between the extremes ofadia-
to batic Pfow (no heat transfer) and isothermal flow. The
oc- basic for formulas adiabatic and isothermal flow are
the given in par. 9-5.5, AMCP 706-201. The formula for
calculating the mrximum ms flow of ai: within α
paragraph. same the in pr-tended is system
calculation of flow through novIxcs, orifices can Tecluaino lwtruhnzls rtws
The piping, valves, and fittings may be simplified by use
The of charts and graphs for expansion factors, orifice
coefficients, iftical pressure ratioc for zzles, and
. relative roughness and friction factors Zoi π .hng and
tubing. Familiarity with the simplified χ4uations of
Refs. 2 and 4, and use of the tables, graphs, and
charts cont'iined therein, will allow α good analysis of
an entire system or component to be made. -o
venfication rhe of the design through actual
operational test of the system or component per-
goal. ultiinatc is the designer'σ formance