The an sunt of axial motion that must be ac-
commodated usually will determine the type of strivc
shaft couplings used. All known drive shaft sysiems
offer α resistance or damping force opposite to the δ:-
roction of axial motion whilc trensmitting torque.
The maximum acceptable valuc for such forces usugl-
lation system or the engine PTO dasign specification
limits. Damping force characteristics for various
couplings and spline combinations are discussed in
par. 4-3.2.1.
Other input driveshaft design criteria arc governed
by maintainability, vulncradility, and reliability
requirements and by additional engine PTO design
and specification limits.
Maintsinability considerations require that the
engine-to-gearbox shaft contain "quick-disconnect"
featur σ. Easc of accesibility also is required to facili-
tate drive shaft inspection and servicing. and engine
or gearbox replcement. Since these tasks must be
performed at the direct support ievel, thc absolute
minimum of special tools, fixtures, and skills should
be required.
Although vulnerability and reliability have been
digcussed previousiy, it is important to conside: the
consequence of drive shaft failure. The large kinetic
enangy ef the input driv shaft categorizes it as α
potentially bazardous o: kethal object should it
separate at eitbe: or both of thc engincs and gearbox
adapters. The use of antiflail devices, ι.χ., secondary
components or structuse capable of capturing α failed
drive shaft, is highly desirablc.
In addition to limaits on axial force specification at
tbe cngine PTO pad, allowablc moments and sieady
and oscillatory radial kcads are usually specifiod.
Since engine-to-gearbox shaft rotation speeds are in
the range 6000-20,000 spm, compliance with thc 06-
cillatory load limits generally roquire kinematic and
dynanic balancing of the individual clcments of the
drive shaf! ansembiy. When positioning or locating
tolerances between mating aurfaccs of ckanents such
as couplings, adapters, and shatts cannot be con-
troliod adequateiy. it may bocom= noocssary to
balance the compicte asscmbiy to eliminatc excessive
vibratioa.
4-3.1.2 Endercax sect Skulting
An interconnect shaft syo an for muf. pie main (or
lifing) rotor belicopiars tranamits power bet woen the
engine geardoa (or the coloctor gcarbox in mutti-
engiac Ielicopters) and the mein rolor gearbox(au)
wbie alao esaiataining phaar reiationskip beiween
roiors. The primary considerstions for such an inter-
vonnsct shaf. system sre reliability and survivabiliy.

AMCP 706-302
as funciional failure of the shafting becomcs α catas-
trophic failure almost immediately, with α collision of
the intermeshing rotor blades. Ächievemem of the
nacessary level of reliability requires detailed con-
sideration of operating stresscs and margins of safe-
ty, critical speod margins, number and type of dy-
namic components (such as bearings, hangars
dampers, couplings, and splines), redundanay in
mountiuig and support structure, and ease of in-
spection. Criticality of the interconnect system allows
little latitude for reliability trade-offs and compro-
mise with weight, cost, and maintainability goals.
Optimization of dcaign, then. must be in the di-
rection of minimum numser ci parts, low streas (high
margin of safety), and high tolerance to ballistic
damage. Therefore, the drive shaft tubes will be rela-
tively large diameter, thin wall, and long (within α
safe buckling) length/diameter (Λ/Δ) ratio and criti-
cal spocd limit. Intermediate bearing hanger design
must permit relubrication, with ready access to the
whole hanger for visual inspcction. The selection of
drive shaft tubs material can neessitate further con-
sidcrations of axial motion due to differential cx-
pansion between the airframe (generaily aluminum)
and ine Criveshaft (steci, aluminum, titanium, er
composite). Airframe deflections duc to fight
maneuvers or load distribution also can contribute to
the axial delections of the drive shaft. These de-
floctions will necessitate couplings capable of ab-
sorbing the anticipated motion. If axial deflections
sre small, then flexible disk couplings frequently are
the choice; for larger axial defloctions, ihe geared
coupling or ball-apline disk combinations are batier
suited. Under any spocific set of requirements, the
primary deaign emphasis must be reliability and
ready-accen for scrvice and inepection.
4-3.1.3 Tall Reter er Propeller Sheftinc
The drive shaft systom u: sd on α sisgke main rotor
heicopter to power the tail or antitorque roior, spas
between the main gearbox and the tail rotor gear- box. This sysiem must provide pomer to the tai roioc υ-
from the main rotor in the eveat of loss of drive from
the enginc(σ). In sormal oparation, the engine(σ)
drive through α frcewhecling diatch to the main gear-
box. During auiorotatioa, wben the free-whoeling
unit is overrunning, tail rotor power is cxtractod from
tbe maie rotor autorotationai, or kinctic flywibecl, in-
ertia.
Tail rotor drive shafting will be subjocted to severc
transicnt loads and cyclic torsional oscibatioos as
-gs bo sndus anbs ye pemu
ments for most fight conditions are moderase ia
nature, with saximua sierdy lorque roquirod during
473