upon belicopter weight and CG location. Units
shcu'δ have the capability of being removed casily
and quickly.
Wbeols should be capabie of rolling over α 4-in.
obatacle. Α braking devico is not roquirecl.
12-1.2.3 Scuf Plates
Factors that affect akid wear are spood of landing.
bearing press re, raistance of akid material to abra-
sion, and type of landing surface, Romovable woar
platos chould be locuted st critical woar points along
the bottom of the skid to prevent permanent damnage
to the akid and supporting structure when α landing is
made on α hard surface &τ α speod of 35 kt. These
wear plates must be designed te prevent excossive
digging into the pavement surfacs as α result of the
scuffing action rerulting from gozr motion. Steel wear
strips soom to give the best rosults.
12-13 RETRACTABLE GEAR
12-1.3.1 Gemeral
Extenaion and retraction requiroments fo: the
landing actuation system sre given by the helicopter
systom, or detail spoafication.
1he goar &ztyation system must include α mechan-
icat lock at cithar cxtreme of travel; must provide an
indication of gear status — ι.. up, down, or in tran-
sit —- and must provide & method for emergency ac-
tuation. Retraction can be sccomplished by folding
foward, aft, or lsterally, ur by telescoping the gear
along α fixod oleo axis. Forwa δ retraction is favored
for the main goar in order to perrait the airstream to
tion method may be employed on the nose gear,
aiîher because structural coraiderstions preclude :
larga, open whocl well in the nosc, or because the
nose goar strut length must be controllable in order to
tilt the fuselage for cargo loading.
Α typicai retraction system, wherein the ges: pivots
up into α whoel well, contains the following:
1. An actuating cylinder on cach gear, which either
acts as α drag strut or drives the drag strut linkage,
which in turn actuatzs ihe gear
2. Mechanical up and down locks
3. Mechanical lock limit switches
4. Limit switches on cach geer scissors, or on the
oleo itself, which are deactivated when the helicopier
weight is on the gear.
The down lock limit switch, the landing gear con-
trol handle, the scissors switches, and the hydraulic
control vaive up coil are wired in scries so that raising
can commence only with gear unload. Similarily, the
up lock limit switch and the control vaive down coil
are wirod in series through the control hand.χ.

γ
AMCP 706-202
The dosign of the actuating aystems shall be in ac-
cordance with MIL-C-5503 and MIL-H-8775. How-
ever, the spocified seals (MS 28775) and scraper rings
(MS 28776) atrould be replacod where possible. O-
ring shaft soals are prone to spiral failure because the
scal works on an unlubricated shaft. Improvod ser-
vice life has beęρ achievod by using α scal consisting
of α Τ-shapod elastomer supportod by two Teflon
backup rings. MS crapers sllow entrance of sand
and dirt becausc the sealing surface is discontinuous.
Α fillod Teflon scraper. preloadod with an O-ring.
provides longer scal life.
12-1.3.2 Actuatioa
Indication usually is provided for threc modes on
cach gear. Engagement of the mechanical up and
down locks artuaies the goar up and down in-
dications, respoctively, in thc cockpit.
Disengagement of both up and down locks in-
dicates an in-transit cundition by illuminating the
gear control handle fromn within and/or by un-
covering α striped "barber pole" indicator.
12-13.3 Ensrgeney Extenlon
Emergency extension of thc gear should be
manual. An air bottle may provide the cnergy
necessary τ5 assist in fowering the gear and to over-
come air loads on the gear door. Provisions shall be
madc for emergency extension in the event of loss of
hydraulic pressure or of failure of the landing gear
directional contiol valve.
12-1.4 SKIS AND BEAR PAWS
12-1.4.1 Gemeral
Skis and bear paws are similar. Bear paws are used
primarily on snow or soft terrain for nearly verticaf
descents. Skis are used primarily for landings with
some forward speed in snow-covered areas. Skis are
400 MAIN GEAR STATIC AND TAIL OR
NOSE GEAR DYNAMIC LOÃΔ
SKI BEARING PRESSURE, 1β/τ² 300 200
MOSE ANO TAIL GEAR
(STATIC LOAD)
100 0 4000 8000 1200Γ 16000 20000
GEAR LOAD,
Figure 12-7. Landing Gear Static Load vs Ski
Beariag Preseure
12-9