3. Construct a thermal map with probable steady-
state "dry running" temperature gradients.
4. Redasign ali gear ano becring elements to
provide some clearance under the mapped grsdients.
Aaded clearance should be provided at high-sate fric-
tional heating sources to accommodate transient con-
ditions. For example, reiieving clearance will not be
provioed by expansion of the gear case until the in-
the c8c.
5. Use materiels with adequate hot hardness and
friction properties for thermally vulnerable com-
ponents.
6. Provide self-lubrication of bearings where pos-
sibie. Methods include the use of suitable cage
materials or the use of appropriately located wick de-
vices.
7. Re-caiculate bearing lives and gear stresses for
the increased clearance conditions occurring during
operation in the normal lubrication regimc. Adiust
design parameters accordingly; i.c., increase face
widths o: pitch of gear members, along with bearing
capacitics, as required.
4-1.2.1.4.5 Areor
In some cases it may be appropriate to employ ar-
mor plate to protect the vulnerable component. This
design technigue is the least preferred because it adds
weight, increases maintenance task times, and
penalizes the full-time payload.
In such applications, integral srmor is preferred
over parasitic or bolt-on armor. Not only is the
weight penalty slightly lcss withs intcgral ermor, but
the pitfalls of increasing payload at the expensc of ar-
-is pdn iim as i
plications dual-hardness steel armor will be the most
efficient type to integrate because it can be rolled,
welded, bolt-fastened, or inegrally cast. Design of ar-
mor installations is discussed in detail in Chapter 14.
4-1.2.3 Detve System Configurations
The specific requiremente for the drive system are
dictated by the detailad configuration layou: and
vehiche requirements. ANiCP 706-201 sets fortt: the
evolution of an approved preliminary design con-
fguration, which will include detailed requirements
drives: i.e., the spoeds, powers, location, and relative
orientation of ihese drives. Typical configuration
requirements for existing Army belicovters are dis-
cusaed further in the paragruphs that foilow.
4-1.2.2.1 Sigie Mala Rotor Drive Systes
The msjority of helicopiers in current use are of the

AL.CP 705-202
single main rotor configuration and are powered by
cither one or two eagines. A shaft-driven, singie-
lifting-roto: helicopter alvays employs antitorque
reaction and thrust device to counteract main rotor
driving torque and to provide yaw control for hcli-
copter maneuverability. A shaft-driven tail rotor lo-
catod at the aft end of the tailboom and arranged as
cither a pusher or a tractor propeller is used most
comnonly.
The tail rotor shaft is driven through a 90-deg bevel
gear set that ir turn is driven from the main rotor
gearbox by a long driveshaft or serics of counected
driveshafte. Tbe power takcoff from the main rotor
gearbox for the tail rotor is gearec to the main rotor
drive downstream of the output side of the free-
wheeling or overrunning clutch iocated between the
enginc(s) and the main rotor geurbox; this ar-
rangement permits full yaw maneuver capability
during auto-sotation or engine-out operetion.
Accessory drive requirements vary extensively and
are dependent upon the primary vehicle mission and
helicopter size. These drives muy be mounted on the
main gearbox or isolated in an accessory gearbox that
is driven by a shaft from the maie: geurdox. Secon-
dary accessory elements may be driven from the tail
rotor driveshaft. Table 4-3 identifies certain con-
figuration characteristics for the single main rotor
helicopters in current Army usc.
It should be rietect that accessory regeirements in-
creasc with the size of tfse helicopter. Light ohserva-
tion helicopters (LOkr's) hsve few accessory requise..
ments and possibly no drive sucduncancy. In gr rul.
these helicopters may be fiown safely without hy-
draulic booet of the flight controls, and the batsery
suffices for emeigency clectrical supply in the event of
failure of cho engine-driven generator.
Utility helicopters (UH) frequently require redun-
dant hydraulic pump and electrical generator drives
due to the magnitude of the rotor controi loads and
the incrcased clectrical loads attendant upon the
larger anounts of instrumentation, electronics, and
mission-cssential equipment.
Cargo helicopters (CH) often must have auxiliary
power unit (APU) for ground operation &nd check-
out of electrical &nd hydraulic subsystems. It is com-
mon practice to employ an independert axessory
gearbox driven througl: overrunning clutches from
both APU and main rotor gearbox to permit ac-
cessory operation from either power source.
4-1.2.2.2 Meltälgtog-rotas Drive Systems
Multilifting-rotor helicopiers have becn designed
and tested in many configurations — such ns fere and
4-23