NHY 70-302
Mylas and polynnide tape. in clectricatly driven
motors has nace possidle the construction of light.
powerful motois thel coof rezdily. Tapas also are
used for binding wiring kareus. seuling acoess ports,
and sealing cevities for foum-in-place filing. Teflon
tapes are used to prorioe lou-frictior: surfaces for
low-load-bearing sreas subject to slisling contact.
Finally, masking tapes are vssd in the finishing.
repair, or repainting of surfsces.
2-7 LUBNICANTS, GREASES, AND
HYDRAULIC FLUIDS
2-7.1 CENERAL
Although this chapier is drvotcd to mzterials, thc
subject of lubricants and kydiaulies canoet be di-
vorcat fro: the istal sysien. The designer caenot
ticular use. A lubrication systean is designed for de-
livering oil to the mochanisnus to be lubricatet. Se-
lection of the oii to de used is zs much e function of
the fitering. cooling. and pumping properties of the
sysletn paris az it is of thu muacharirst to be lubri.
caled. Sinsiar considerations nre apglicable to the se-
beanion nf mydrsulic fivida. Even witts greazes. Ki
matier of srvice and saintenunce and ttse psorsion
of ac:qunte fitings. baashisgs. and scals murt be cos-
siderei in relation to the lubuicztior nueds and sine
grer.ses sckcted.
Flese are dyransic salives than sinsic uses of
materials. Thc wid: range of lubricating raateriais
and thcir aplications are indicatod in: Tabls 2-18.
Even wtien. the sysien is not dyrsmsic amt main-
tenance is not a peoblsi -- at v itf. tha: cse of scaled
taaing, dubii teiogn. y fm usi-
cant, asd mnierials of hat lubr city auch ss Telton
-- thn fructional sd wens chaf:tsmiis of ihe purts
invovcs nuss d aaiyzex and bndaowes as & syslev
ratdas thas thssugh treating coch conina friction
arau t an isolated cut.
2.1.1 DESACN OF LUEEA(ATION SYSTEMS
The regourtnacuta for sesign of iubrication syt-
tcvas tot turbiar cugites iscsinditné in heicopters are
diaslhaxe ig Chagier 3: reqvirenenis for tans-
oivaanae aad décio: *y eiera lubrication are discussas in
Chazia. 4. As Gscciksed in Chagian. 4. din conerecio
si gispae a ttcaibns lutricetion fet for approvat
priar to iani.ion of sanch Junicateoa. data in tny
tochnical erd, hcndbos. a oihes msinterun
docuenust schaduian3 Ess cadivery l: ta Cocxesaseat.
Licina of : lutricont srd a carserepundiag lafni.
cation imierval for y given agpiication Conoitutes as-
surance by itot coniescve ikat rachh equiproent will
2-3

perform as reguired for the specified interval when so
jubricates.
2-73 GREASES
A detailed discussion of the many approvca
guxscs is includrd in MIL-HDBK-275. For pur.
poses of illustration, the applications for four types of.
greases are discussed.
1. Hclicopter oscillating bearings. A suitable
grease for use in bearings having oscillating motions
of snall amplitude — such as helicopter rotor head
bearings — is described in MIL-G-25537, and is ap-
propriate for equipment that must operate at am-
bicnt temperatures of -65° to 160°F. 3t aîso should
q ps
speeds or high tem,perature s.
2. Ball asd rolier bearings. These bearings mey be
Iubricated with e grease describec in NflL-G-25513.
This grease is intended for use in the teraperalusse
rangr of -100° to 450°F. and is designad parti-
culariy for those high-temperature bali and roller
betring applications where soap thickencrs may not
b ud. The speas fator o: DN valus of the barin
may net eeocrd 20.00o. Thi: greosc is not to de usosi
for tidiag mexal-on-metal ues. such as jonannd
benringz, apares gears, and gear treint
3. Genez and actuators. A general-parpsnt gregsa
fod guipasicat reguiring lubricant wità high tond
cazeecity is described in MIL-C-S1322. This grexse: is
ssefus in tbe temperature range of -65° i 350"F:.
and in conapwtible with rubber.
4. Fiseunaic systerrs. Anothes frequently st-
quisod greaze is described by MIL-G 8343. This
grcase is intesrdod for use in prrurgatic systexta af a
ivdricans ieavocn rudier senis and nrciai punis
(undes diynauni consitions). &nd hes proven satis-
aθς: for Nse wi1k t4kl-p-5516 iubbee, inut soukd no0
te maed with enher types of ruùbes withont priry
secing for compasiti"ty.
2-7.4 DNT FHLA AND PERMANLNT
LURUICANES
Bexsuss: o: the high leacl of cand and dust con-
taminstion frequcntly eskcountered in helkcogrer
ojxestion:. il is suvantagrcas to use nonu etling lubsi.
canas that do nut rause the dust to adiase. tnchased
u-ng such lobricauas ane plastis malesiais se higà
luureity. ssct as Tesion and nylon. esosybdenum di. мнт
safficke in n pi: i narrax, nnd pofOcs Estts (uuuly
dronze) braringn filed uik * sewvolatile luoricana.
suchs as silicont. These ssnsiiy sre cmplogec is: teto.
load applications, spct, s in aotironerataion. ant en
lon snod sating agpi-stions.