berings Moments and &hear fort for the pitch
amr highe than thoe of an equivalent fully articu-
1taed same rotor. Motions are of the order of magni-
tude but, as noted previously, do not Include tie o-
cillations due to cyclic pitch. Retention methods are
same the as those previously described for the pitch
axis of the fully articulated hub.
Σ-τ1", Teetearla Huls
configu- hub rotor two-bladed common Anothir
ration, used on the and the Fairchild-Hiller OH-58Α
. FH-λ an 100, is hub free to teeter about axis normal
to both the blade span and thu rotor shaft for cyclic
Capping. Control linkages to each blade change col-
lective This and cyclic pitch. type of hub has
preconed pitch axes underslung below the teetering
hinge, and, in general, the loads and motions arc
similar to those of the two-bladed, gimbal-mounted
hub. However, larger chordwise moments are caused
by the lack of full gimbal provisions, and the pitch
axis bearings must accommodate the oscillatory
as collecti,\ motions of cyclic pitch well as motions.
.: Ri5δ Rotor Σ 1 &5.1.3
blade retention rotor "'rigid," or hingeless, The
confiSuration attache the rotor blades firmly to the
hub, which, in turn, is attached rigidly to the rotor
retention mast. The blade system must be capable of
transferring forces and moments in both flapwise and
lead-lag I directions. The blade centrifugal force may
be reacted by any of the conventional methods (α ten-
clastomeric sion-torsion an strap, bearing, or α stack
of antifriction bearings). The retention must provide
"α pitch change capability (both cyclic and collective),
centrifugal and the be. force must reacted across the
... •,, ,-,,ε- .... ... aaaa -. * pna urn... μ ass
SNo are hinges provided for flapwise or lead-lag
motion and the only flap or lag movement of the
blades relative to the fixed support structure is due to
structural deflection. The specific layout of the hub
and the retention determines the manner and extent
to which these daflections couple with and affect the
pitch motion of the blades.
As with other systems that do not incorporate α
flapping hinge, α precone angle usually is built into
α the blade retention for hingeless rotor. This built-in
angle helps to alleviate the flapping moment that the
retention geometry must react, The of the retention
of the span- may include sweep and/or droop also
wise axis of the blade relative to the feathering hinge
"axis. The direction and amount of these alignments,
specific together with the geometry of the blade pitch
control coupling input, define the feedback between
tion blade u and pitch control input. The necessity
5-30
Sz_%'.
. .-

K
for significas and of then coupling upon the effects
stability of the rotor system are discussed in detail in
Chapter AMCP 5, 706-201.
The advantage of the hingeless rotor in- "am
dude the high level of control provided by the tra-
for of moments. The system may be physcally iniple,.
Α
but the strength required to transmit the forces and
moments across the blade retention system can cause
the retention to be heavier than is true for other types
rotors. of
(~NSIDflATIONS
considerations The design applicable to the use of
rolling element bearings in rotor blade retention
systems are reviewed in this paragraph. Additional
discussion of bearings, for blade retentions and for
other applications, is found in par. 16-3.
Other components associated with the blade reten-
tion system that also are discussed in this paragraph
are: lag dampers, lead and lag stops, droop and flap
stops, and drvop and flap retainers.
Μ5.2.1 Rolling Element Bearila
{- used ρ in rotor Rolling element bearings are widely
hinges. Experience with them has been good and the
technology, which is based upon both analytical
methods and empirical data, hat been verified by
extensive service experience. Gene ally, these bear-
ings are compact. Bearing friction as low and has α
negligible effect on hub loads However, the effect of
pitch axis bearing friction on control system loads
be should evaluated; on large helicopters this friction
usually is low compared with the aerodynamic and
dynamic loads, but on smaller helicopters the effect
iliy tic as α~if st. ν
The failure mode of osczllattng rolling element
bearings most generally encountered is gradually pro-
gressive spalling looseni-ss, that results in heat
generation, These and aircraft vibration. factors have
some incipient failure warning characteristics.
Both grease- and oil-lubricated bearings have been
used in rotor hinges. The for of oil um is favored the
majority of cunent helicopters. Some characteristics
of the two systems are:
Oil 1. Lubrication:
satisfactory α. Oil is over α broad temperature
range and is changed easily in ra*.onse to environ-
changes. mental
β. Oil sight gages provide positive indication of
lubricant presence.
χ. Oil permits "on condition" maintenance.
δ. Reservoirs should centri- be located so that
fugal force drives oil into the bearings.