anstadlod on cortain ksaiorugtcerz. Eacih
iscsviavalty.Hsulicnp-
dan vudgcity. sir condnono,
decormns ceuris dicgoad.
cmafiranad witl aickbar
wichis tibe wadrickez aitar fir-ang.
predalams, iout iersrodsoas
as vetonticca pf secloes
oug ooo saede γ sd ρ" spe
chet α doluris asu tao
isnto tina vedsicia, thsraby sosing vabambboe
14-2.Α.7 Taric Enpbsaire Can Pveicales
The apprlicabis crineria for toaic pa conceptra.
tioces are consasued in AdIL-STD-sO0. Threebnld timit
volus for personnal eapuure an contincr' ens cf. 2.
Gun gasos can heve toxic efiocts on peruonnci if
allonvad lo cater tbe crew compastmeisi. Adequate
sating. purying. oad ventilacion sboule br con-
ridhrad in order to avoid this bazasd. Accumuiation
Gges gracs in mintere with ther props propasbon ol
air sloo can reoult in explocica and catestropaic
failure. Gun bay os tursat aror: maust bave adoguate
natasal or forced air (biooner) ventidation so mairatuin:
ga. jovels badow their explorive lutits Concenstion
of grsa above 75% of the lomet expicsive limit, θ.:
propurtion at whic buming can occur, is con-
sidored hazrrdour. Design of = purging system must
contider hover and grourd firing conditions winen air
in che proximity of the gu bay may virtuelly be stag-
nant. Roior downwask fiaay bo corsidered as α means
of gas disgerael. The purge aystem shail De designed
to remsin operationoi for some time after cessation of
gunfire to avoid trapping gases. Ventilation or rama
air purging aystemg should be designed so that air in.
takes are loceteì away from ths gun muzzle in order
to prevent inteks of gun gases along with purging air.
Case must be taken noi to locate any possible clec-
trical α: zing sources in the arca cf guri gasts. Fina!
composition of gan leveis, anc prooi of purging de-
sign. mus de determuned by actuai tirngs monitoreu
α by propaa derecuon equipr.ent.
14-2.Α.8 Turei Maner Poxer Swaeh
To prevent inadvestesst operaticn cnf : remote conn-
trol tirre whil: it is beng ss viced, α maste sower
svitca that is acmg: die from the turret se rvicing area
ato bor, prorided.
14.12

14-3 FEUTECTTVE SLBSYSTEMS
JAR1 CINERAL
Ncizaopr. sarvivabiany is desteoad an uce sbibg of
siee vaaicte to acuiluse
Sastide cuviruneuent in
masnt bg scukrAc sg thor
-uen ) ε o re og
boueg fg (uper pre aurq
asd fire opftrol (sucto as rad
reaing par formagnes
Cesigpaing the aiverat to witmenand
Tioe apyroprists pix gamesudy α dstnrucued ly tir
Army beeu-δ oa tihe pesipens oif tivs aaeruft amt pane-
lenad tièreut. E'hue the sircrast deugaev σ jot α ampó-
fiod since be is suppliun witie tibe aircran snvive-
bility fencaurs and cherscierweace, wiach ne an
gusivs to strsio. Vanows terèniques for aaeronng
tihese goais aas discusssd aa approprsan: pe
genl purseqa on genae 8ε Jo Ksrqe 9aL
girarally in termed - onompas Α.q
listic bardoning".
Veainerebility reciltectioua nnias depunas apon σ.
lonnt Lbroe Faciors: (1) tin thrent charactarustics, sach
as calinuer and type of psojociie. impact velocity, and
sngte of cudiquity: (2) tio. usrga (ricupas connpo
neut) chazacieristsce, uach ae materiat, thuckaes. α.
opavating strcasrs; ane (3) the relationship botween
the beltavior of tive targai componest and that of the
remainder cf the hedicopter. Vuinerabidty roducton
during new design groeraliy can be accompissed
more effcienti; by propa subeystem dengn tech-
nique than the use of armor. An optimum design is
characterized dy armor teing umted so the crew sta-
tion. Methods uard to achieve vusnerability roduction.
con be cltsxifiod as buria), concentration, suplice.
tion, aeparation, bailistic renistarce, buflnter toler-
ance, and, as α last resort, armor.
Duplication, as an exampie, is the optimal method
for protection of flight controf sysrems. Associared
problemns are the need to separate to be effecaiv: and
how far to extend the redundancy. Duphcale contecis
running side by side would not redunxe overall vul-
nerability significantly. since α singie nit might rup-
turc both sets. Moreover, if both acts lurminate at à
common actuator, that actuator becomes the vulner.
avie element.
Shielaing and concentration of components
generally go together. The numbers of heary struc-
lurcl memoers and components and subeystems thut
can be regarded as not mission-criticai are very
humitod in α properly desigaed helicopter. The prac-
tice of · mncentrating critical components within 8
amall vorume, and then snielting them with kcas