AMCP 706-202
tail rotor thrust caprhif".· sti" ·· be an yzed
under forward flight conditions, sncluding critical
maneuvers. Without such verification, it may be
necessary to restrict the helicopter operational enve.
lope or to redesign the tail rotor when deficiencies are
discovered during subsequent Right test.
Prior to final definition of the maximum required
tail rotor thrust, consideration should be given to in-
creased thrust requirements resulting from the in-
crcased engine power availablc with enginc growth.
Refs. 58 through 61 givc additional data on tail
rotor design. There currently are no Military Specifi-
cations applicable specifically to the design of anti-
torque rotors.
5-9.2 TYPCIAL ANTITORQUE ROTORS
Tail rotors in current use employ from two to six
blades. However, there is no basis for limiting the
number of blades. The blades arc retained ι.ν α hub τ
allow collective pitch change ranging from positive to
negative angles. Two-bladed tail rouors Λ-aliy are
designed with iectering biades, whercas rotors with
threr or more blades havc individual hirges. In cithes
type, 8, commonly is used to control the flapping
magnitude. In tail rotors with te tering blades, the
precone required for vznding moment reauction aiso
can be used to compensate for the acrodynamic and
centrifugal twisting moment that drives the blade to
low collective pitch angles. The blades may be
retained in the hub by bearings, trnsion-torsion
straps, or elustomeric bearings.
The blades used for tail rotors are much stiffer in
all modes than those used for main rotors. For in-
stance, in the torsional mode, the combination of
biade and contrul stiffness generaily is five to six
times greater than the stiffness in main rotors. This,
combined with the higher relative mass and high
beari ig Gamping. usualiiy ciiminatas the mass baiance
requirement for preventing flutter and divergence.
(Ref. 59).
5-9.3 TAIL ROTOR DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
The tail rotor shall produce the thrust nscessary for
helicopier ysw contrui and the antitorquc require-
ments of the main rotor. This thruss must be pro-
duced when operating in the flow ficld and dyramic
environment found with tail rotor belicopters; ε.γ., in
the presence of α tail fin, in the wake of thc main
rotor ai sideward velocitics, ncar the ground, and
when the helicopter has α positive or negative yaw
rate and/or accekration.
Basod upon the goometric conditions between the
tail rotor and the rest of the helicopter (Fig. 5-50)., the
tail roto. thrust Τ.. required is found from Eqs. Σ.19
and 5-20 with Ξ and R. meusured ies foct:
5-78

(ΩR)μ: 550 HPm Rmr . ft-1β (5-19)
"Λ Qmr + 12: 16 (5-20)
Ξ
where
mass moment of inertia of hclicopter in
yaw, slug-ft²
= distance from centerline of main rotor to
centerline of tail rotor, ft
yaw accelcration, rad/sec
mr main rotor torque, ft-lb
R mr main rotor radius, ft
(ΩR). mr main rotor tip speed, fps
" tail rotor θ. ust required to comapensate for
main rotor torque, and to provide required
yaw acccleration, lb
The tail rotor thrust calculated in Eq. 5-20 is the
net thrust. taking into account all interference losses
due to the presence of vertical tail fins, flow ficld, and
dynamic effects. The rotor will be designed to mect
the thrust requirement found in Eg. 5-20 at the criti-
cai hovering temperature and altitude or θ critical
engine altitude. Normal forward flight condi.ions are
of secondary importance since the vertical tail fin
usually is designed to unload the tail rotor at cruisc.
High-speed autorotations and rolling pullouts are
ewo critical exceptions.
In addition to producing the thrust required. the
tail rotor shal! be decigned for case of control.
manual or boosied. The rotor should bc designed so
that α linear control wifl be obtained in all flight con-
ditions where the tail rotor docs not operate in thc
vortex stage. The natural frequency of the rotor
should not correspond to any criticai froquencies oc-
curring in the rest of the structure. In addition to nor-
mal structural integrity. tail rotor design skall con-
sider acroclastic prob!ems.
Fieure Σ-se. Geovetrie Dete