rangting and numbers ftom 0.50 to 0.75. Weight struc-
tural conciderationh suggcst higher minimum valuts,
suggtst and noise considerations lower maximum
conpr'nise in - values resuliOi design α
Iyetwecn Mach and 0.7. 0.6
FLIGHT LEVEL HIGH-SPEED 5-2.2
performance, flight level bigh-tpeed maximize To
optimizing in as considered are metta patr same the
ratio hover performance. in addition, the of
hspeed to rotational tip speed, or advance ratio o, is
traduced.
design, In high-seed . the basic compoatase
between advancing blade tip Mach number oad
vbnce ratio. The advancing tip Mach number Man
can be defined ts
V + RR
(5-5) ad I#,, α
where
fps sound, of speed Ω α
fps airspeed, true - V
tip speed, decreasing forward given α At
bUia, δ us•ε that ι providing of amount __ecras•σ the
more and because more force, propulsi've and lift
accom- is effect This flow. reversed in is 4 11 θ,
coefficients lift increased nocessarily, by panie&,,
eventually which disk, the of part the "working" stall. of amounts signi•ficant lead to
rotor increase to is approach The alternative
advancing higher increasingly to leads This speed.
divergence drag Eventually, numbers. Mach blade
the advancing of portion α significan. over attained
α α& requirements power increased with blade,
of value given α with area blade Increasing
coefficient lift blade the lower will speed tip mean
advance higher at operation allow and, therefore,
ratios.
retreating the alleviate to tends Increasing twist
also can result but point, α to up problem stall blade
in negative lift on the advancing blade tip. The
coefficients higher lift disadvantegeous because is
must be achieved over the positive-lift portions of
disk in order to compensate for the negative lift
the advancing blade tip. Also, with large amounts
blade twist, drag divergence - with an accom-
panying increast in power required - may occur
to high negative angles of attack on the advancing
blade
It is necessary to determine the cormbination of
speed. solidity. and twist that results in the minimum
power required for α given speed, or the maximum
sp-ed for α given amount of power available,
Normally•, the high-speed performance problem
5-6

cannot be divorced frori the hover and maneuver
requirements. However, it is discussed as separate ξ
given probklm here, where for α amount of power
airpeed maximized, Initially. α fange available, is to be
crn an source such Ref. used to determine an in- 6 be
itial set of values for solidity, and tip speed. twist,
and weight gross for values that requireiy source This
6 Ref. assumed. be first area δ;,ag parasite vehicle
linear α and section airfoil α particular assumes also
flight twist distribution. From this starting point, modifi-
in- cationt of section, blade tip airfoil planform shape,
and twist can be made in order to achieve speed in-
creases up to the limits of the power available.
ad- To increase the advancing blade tip Mach number
, at which drag divergence becomes critical, airfoil
thickness can be reduced. For symmetrical airfoil&, reduction of thickness to vaiues les of than 12% nor-
coeffi- mally results in α reduction of maximum lift
cient. This is detrimental for thet lifting capability of
in- by altered be can effect This blade. the retreating
reduced of scction airfoil the into camber troducing
for value an acceptable maintain to order in thickness
diver- drag an increased attaining also while C,,,. apeed
uI of _nt, ι-_,Ip _.μ -. Π 1_ρ... _=η .-- gpnp , ,_,ν ,-μ
pitching undesirable blade in result will camber of
numbers. Mach high level-flight at moments
decrease to be employed can tip blauc the of Sweep over
allowing higher thus number, Mach effective the can +I (V number tip Mach advancing of rctual values
the compiassibility to due rise drag before OR)/α tip
be unacceptably must care However, high. becomes
and, area effect-ve of loss the avoid to exercised is
capability. lift retreating-blade of therefore,
opti- in assist may distributions twist Nonlinear rsult.
available. power of amount α given for rizing speed rotor
ι6ι det£iled invitIed α Ioto IIIUhM CzIVts Ve iTA
and azimuthal radial of consideration by analysis
No number. Mach and angle-of-attack of variations
ap- only the is trkl-and-error offered; be can ρ, Its
available. currently proach
latter
FLIGHT 5-2.3 MANEUVERING HIGH-SPEED
the Achievement of the desired maneuver capability at
on α given airspeed also may affect tat selection of final
of values for the basic rotor design parameters. Because
of increasing amounts of retreating blade stall, tht
(for due higher the forward speed α given tip speed) the
more difficult it is to achieve high maneuvering load
factors.
satisfactory tip To begin with, α static analysis is not
for determination of maneuvering flight capability.
As discussed in Ref. rotor pitch and roll rates are 7,
involved in both symmetrical and turning maneu-
vcrs, signifi- and can affmt load factor capability