!Λ I/ρ .
AMCP 70O-2O2 *
for used arc frequently bearings fabric TUflon Stops Laend-α Dampeirs, La 5-5.25
life with satisfactory For dampers. lag mounting meet must rotor articulated an of damper lag The
be should 5-5.2.2) (par. values loads, reversing PV resonance ground in stability requirement& blade
found satisfactory under those 1/3 approximately common Two 5-3.6). (par. flight in and 5-4.3) (par.
nonreversing loads. hy- are dampers lag in absorption energy of means
lag its hydraulic in pistons auxiliar, has CH-53 The of the majority on (used absorbers shock draulic
all force to ar,. pressarized pistons dampers. The dampers friction and 5-26)) (Fig. pters hcli&. large
rotor vibration during that so stops lead the to blades small several in used disks, (spring-load oscillating
as minimized. startup ex- timpler, and less lighter, Although helicopters).
lead as are used frequently lag dampers Hydraulic less reliable. arc gSnerally dampers friction pensive,
used be can cushions hydraulic Integral stops. lag and is rotorai new in dampers friction of use the Therefore,
the stop. agtinst blade the of impact the reduce to discouraged.
Principal design conditions of the lead and lag
stops (whether integral with the damper or not) are:
will flight conditions or maneuvers I. Predictable
stops. not cause contact of the lead or lag
due to rotor brake 2. Lead stops will not yield
application.
will not yield due to engine starting 3. Lag stops
torque.
4. Lead and lag stops should fail before any dy-
namic component critical to safe flight yields.
Restrainers 5-5.2.6 Droop and Flap Stops and
limit the Articulated rotors require stops to
flapping τ• motion of individual biaaca. extremes of
" Teetering and gimbal-mounted hubs have α similar
'
the complete rcquirement, but the motion is that of
rotor assembly.
positioned to allow nor- The droop stop must be
con- cyclic blade motion in all predictable flight mal
making contact with or maneuvers without δ~tions
the stop. This stop position also must be enough 1-"gh
contact in high winds to prevent blade/fuslage
during rotor shutdown and when parked, ι.ε., when
not provide α radial blade centrifugal force does
force. Σ..restoring
I I
Centrifugally operated droop restrainers often are
clearances. These used to increase blade/fuselage ...... ....
restraincrs engage at α rotor speed approximately 40-
during rotor shutdown and restrict 60% of normal
provide clearances not possiblc with blade droop to
permanent droop stops.
overturning of the Flap stops prcvent accidental
blade~σ in vcry high winds, and are positioned to allow
all clearance for flight cyclic flapping motions in
flisht conditions.
Centrifugal flap restrainers also can be engaged at
shutdcwn and, in con- low rotor speeds during rotor
droop rstrain•ets junction with greatly reduce flap
blade are essential for motion. Flap restrainers hinge
"elbowing". from the blades folding to prevent
Elbowing occurs when α blade is folded so that its
is axis; if the hinge the flap hinge is inboard of CG Damper Lag Hydraulic 5-26. Figure
5-34