such as nuts, bolts, screws, inscrts, cnd pins used in
assembly. particularly where dissimilar metals are
employed.
À treatment of mc tal plating can be found in Ref.
7. In this process, ft ur methods are used extensively:
clectrolytic. chemical reduction or el-ctroless.
vacuum vapgr deposition, and molen mctal dip.
In eloctrolytic plating, the item to be plated is
clcaned so as to provide an oil- and dirt-free surfacc,
and then is connected as tbe cathode in an eloctroly-
tic coll. The anode is n.ade of the plating material,
and when an electrical current is parsod through the
eloctrolyte, the mctal is depositod upon the surface of
the itom being platod. In somc caees, the item first is
coaiod with & thin layer of co,prr, which adberes
readily to the base aetal and forms a firra surface to
which the platiag mnctal (eitber nickel or chromium)
can attachs firmly. There are a great many proprie-
tary cloctrolytic soJutior. formulations and proccsaes.
Considerabie skill is required to ob.sin a uniform,
finc grain and bright coat, andf much care must be
axercised to auxure clcaalinaas, avoidance of poizone,
prevenion oi troeing, bigering and craciing. aná
avoidance of coarse-grsinod platings. Applicable
O2E-3-Ou 062-N-00 an Nogesyeds ppd
end QQ-Π-416.
Electrolon or chemical-reduction plating depends
upon the generatio? of sctivated atoans of tle lnetal
to be depositod aé iacont to the activaicù mstal sur-
faxe upon which the wiating is to be deposited. Thcre
are proprictary cha:mivai conug-ositions saé reduc-
tion proseses for mncoed metsks vnod in plzting. and
aso fos mout metal arnt: plaatic bese materals. Then:
is lass danges of bydrogs. euabrittbement with this
process. Tine eicctioleus method is suitable for
ikcalizd phating. or for uac in the field or shop where
Lboratory or procces linc fscilitics are iwoi available.
et abo is eflective for wme of ths rtore difficult jobs,
such as nicket-plating of magnesium surfsces, where
the nickrel coating serwes to make the surfacc more
woer-rosiotant sad daas inpact-scnsitive. MiL-C.
26074 covers the piatung of electroiess nickel.
Vacuueo: depncition plating is conductos in :
vacutim shamtex. The itevis to bc platod ar: racked
al sore optimam dhatance fron ibc source of the
plating raetal, end are rotated st as to oisain & uri-
Form coeting. The source of the plating Ma.aj may be
a bot wire or e goiten pool of the metal. The matal is
heated elactricalfs to a tamperatun: at wikich is vapo-
risne Hroas the surface. Uodes the inffuenoe of an elec-
trostatic liadd appliod betupen tihe noutal source asd
the itcass being platod, the aiome of she suctal be-
cosse iosiaod aod are atuactad to the sucface. This
procuos produczs an encepticaally brigit. coberent.

fàe.
AMCP 706-202
and tenacious couting. It is used frequently for metal-
izing plastics, and, becausc the danger of hydrogen
embrittiement is negligib'e, it also i- used for the
plating of high-strength steel parts for high-stress ap-
plications. It is the preferred method of cadmium-
plating high-strength bolts and nuts and other
fastencrs, and MIL-C-8837 details the requirements
for this application.
Galvanized stecl products are made by dipping the
cleaned. preheated steel in molten zinc. Cadmium-
plated parts aiso are madc in this manner, and earlier
tin coatings were applied by the dip process. How-
ever, the dip coating of stecl with cadmium and tin
has been superseded by the more economical and
more precisely controlled electrolytic processes.
MIL-T-10727 covers cioctroplating and hoi dipping
of tin.
In both the clectrolytic and clectroless processes,
hydregen embrittlement is a zignificant hazsrd. Dif-
fusion of thc hydrogen into the metal under the elec-
trolytic forces is greuter than in the case of ciectro-
less deposition. Tne danger increases with the
strengsn and mojuius of tnc piascd materiai. Thus, it
is nccessary to program a hydrogen embrittiement re-
licf heating cycle in order to promote the diffuxixtn of
hyaroge: from the basic metal. The optimum time
and temperature wili depend upon the nature of the
coating material and of the base metal, as well as
upon the scteduling requircsients for the past.
Gencrally. the plating spacification wili require hy-
drogen embritsiement :elief. Embrittlement fro,n che
va uum plating process and from the molien metal
dip process is minimal.
1-6.4 TAPES
Tipes of varying cosposition, texture, thickneso,
and width arc used in a varicty of ways in helicopter
design. Fairic taps may be woven or nonwoven. isn-
preguatod or nonimpregnated, ead made from many
of the advanced piastic materiais. The tapee may or
may not have adbesive on one or botà sides
(presuure-sensitive tapes). :d
Onc application for tapes is in the marking of beli-
copters. Decals conforming to the roquirements of
MiL-P-38477 snny bc usod in licu of prisnt for af ra.
tersal and internal ssarktings within the sine liemits
agnupe angsu amsnatd q Aa Asy.g pagtaode
backed. and scored, sndl are applied orer previou.ly
Sinished surfaceu.
Antishp taywes are uses on waikwayz, seps, and
sienilar areaa, wh.3: bigtr-visibidy tages ase cn-
pioyed in waring inrignia. Castioe et pudes br onsd
lo insurt thnt ansinsip iape adges are rot enpocnt to
airllow thot can caane tte taze to moai. Tos uoe of
2-37