AMP7W6202
Static vents located so that no moisture Alsllbe
enter t~,e openings under any service condit'ons.
Static vent plate shauld heated be if there is a pro~.i-
ability that ice could over the static vent. Other aeal
pertinent design information for flush static vents
obtained be MIL-1-6115S and MIL-P-26292. #'vrnn
9-3A PIWftdcTabu1957.
On recent helicopters, the pitot and static pr'essure
sources have boan combined into a pitot-static zube.
This tube ciui be straight boom for mounting, or
shiaped f mounting directly the fuselage. ýr to Accep-
tible mounting locations are on a boom ahead short
the nose the of helicopter a stationary of on hub
the top of the rotor, and the top of on the cabin
toward th: front, yet near the rotor hub. L jcations
on the forward sides of the fuselage also are accep-
table. However, lo% locations on the bottom of
fuselage usually are susceptible to ground damage.
the tube is located at the rear of the fuselage, right-
and left-mounted units should b,. used in order
reduce the influence of sideslip on the static pressure
measurement. For redundancy, two pitot-static tubes
zmummonded for an heiicopters having mui ýwo
of flight instruments. Pilot-static tubes also rnan
designed with two sets of static ports if additional
static sources are required.
Minimum requirements for pitot-static tubes
specified in MlL-P-31 136. It is recommended that
pitot-static tubes bc capable of completely deicing
and anti-icing under the most severe envitonmental
conditions likely to be encountered in flight. Place-
ment of the static ports on pitat-static a tube
assures adequ~ate deicing of the static vents.
Pitot-static tubes offer the possibility of aerody-
nainic compensation for static-pressure errors. This
accmiplished selectively by designing the shape
the tube and the location the of static pressure ports.
general A description of aerodynamic compensation
is given in Ref. 13. The concept is used extensively
conventional aircwafP, both commercial and military.
MIL-P-83207 applies straight-boom-mounted, tor
aerodynamically compensated pilct-static tubes,
MIL.P-83206, covers L-shaped, compensated tubes,
Placement of the static ponts or the pitot-static
tube and away from the fuaclRSe skin also can reduce
errors caused by skin irregularities iocal in the vicini-
ty of flush static vents. An extensive investigation
surface irregularities and nonreproducibility has
peaformned for conventional aircraft (Ref. 9).
REFERENCES
Blackburn, Reethoff and Shearer, Eds., 1.
Power Control, The M. T. Press. 1.
9-48

can 2. B. W. Anderson. Analysis twSs of Deuignv 77e
The Pnewmatic John Sysiut Wiley and Son*, Inc., ,t
NY, 1967.
Michlne 3. Designv. Fluid Power Reierence Isaue.
can Sept. 22, 1966.
4. FRow of Fluids Throulh l'alw~s, and Pipe. Fittings
Engineer Division of Ctane Co., Chicago, IL,
5. U. S. Standard Atnsophere. Prepared Under
Sponsorship National Aeronautics of and Space
L- Administration, United States Air Force, United
Weather Bureau, States Washington, D-C,
December 1962.
Sadie 6. P. Livingston and Gracey. William Tables onl
of Airspeed, Altitude, and Mach Number Basedon -
Latest International I'aluesfor At:mospheric Prop-
and Physical Consta.,ts. NASA Technical ere
the Note August D-822, 1961.
If 7. Russel M. Herrington, et al., fl7ight Test Engi-
neeting Handbook, AF Technical Report No.
to 6273, Air Force Flight Test Center, Edwards Air
Force Base, CA (AD-636 392), January 1966.
8. Richard 1>,Lco. V. Peter Cannon, Floyd J. and
sets W. Hagen., Evuaiaadoa of New Aes'hod~i fo Flighi
be (- Calibration of Aircraft Instniment System,. Part
IP Analysis of Altimeter. Airspeed, and Free-Air-
Temperature Systems. Wright Air Development
are Center Technical Report (Rosemount En- 59-295
all gineering Company Report 6591). June 1959.
9. Richb.id V. DeLeo. Floyd W. Hagen, Robert R.
Kooiman, and Donald Thompson, Evaluation 1.
of Factors Affecting the Calibration Accuracy of
also Aircraft Static Pressure Systems. USAF Tech-
nical Report SEG-rR-65-35, Air Foroe Systems
Command, (Rosemount VWPAFD. OH-,
Engineering Company Report 66227). June 1962. is
or 10. Floyd W. Hagen and Richard V. DeLco. Flight
Calib atlon of Aircrat Static Pressure Systems,
Federal Aviation Agency, SRDS Report No.
for RD-.4i-3. ("losemount Engineering Company
Repart 76431) February 1966.
William Gracey. William 1I. Letko. and Walter R.
and Russell, Wind-Tunnel Investlgauioai of a Number
of Total-Pressure Tubes at High A ngles A of ttack.
Subsonic Speeds. National Advisory Committee
for Aeronautics Technical Note 233 April 1. 195 1.
R. Johnson, C. 12. Averaging of Periodic Pressure
of Pulsations by a Total-Pressure Probe, National
been Advisory Committee for Aeronautics Technical
Note 3568. October 1955.
Richard 13. V. DeLeo and Floyd W. Hagen, The Use
of Aerodynamically Compensated Pitot-Spatic
Fluid A Tubes on ircraft. Rcsamodnt Engineering Coin-
pany Report 2686C. Minneapolis. Mi.