some phasc of their operation performod on sheltered
or inland waterways. For this type of operation, hull
and auxiliary Boats, if usod, must be divided into
compariments in such a manner that, if any one
cempartment is Toodod, the buoyancy of the heli-
copier still will provide sufficient stability o prevent
capsizins If iloats are usod, the buoyancy noccasary
to suapport the maximum weight of the helicopter in
freah water must be excooded by 50% for singic floats
and 60% for dual floats.
The most straightforv'ard apprr ach to an un-
phibious helicopter is to incorporate a watertight hull
with more than adcquate buoyancy and with little
performance or weight penalty. Auxiliary floats must
provide lateral stability for the sca state condition
specified. The lar.ding gear can be retracted into the
suxiliary flonts to reduce drag.
Another w ay to obtain a water capability for land-
based heiicopters is to add separate fabric (bag) or
metal floats. The wheels and shock absorbers arc at-
tached to the fioats in order to kecp weight to a mini-
.
12
OPEN OCEAN
I SEA STATE
8
SEA STATE WAVE HEIGKTIt 5
SHELTERED AREA
SEA STATE
0 10 20
WIND VELOCITY,kt
Figwe I2-16. Defeition of Ees State Conditions

AMCP 706-202
mum. A single main float is not used on a helicopter
due to the absence of a wing or other structure to sup-
port the auxiliary floats that are necessary for latera!
stability. The permanently inflated bag floats are at-
tached to the airframe by tubular meaibers that sup-
port two foro-and-aft tubes to which thc floats ure at-
tached. These latter tubas provide both stiffness and
stability for the floats. The underside of the float may
have an additional tubular member to accommodate
wear. This also can serve as an attaching point for a
demping unit if such a device is required to damp out
any ter ency of the helicopter to shake or bounce.
Larger amphibious helicopters inave both floats
and wheels. The wheels kecp the float clsar of the
ground during land operations in order to eliminate
chafing and wear on the underside of the float ant. 60
allow taxiing to loading areas without ths need for
dollies or othe: special ground-handling equipment.
Floats, either primary or auxiliary, mnust be able to
withstand the maximuen pressure differential that
might be developed at the maximum flight altitude
without exceeding limit pressure.
12-4.4 EMERGENCY FLOTATION
CAPABILITY
The purpose of emergency floats is to enable the
helicopter to renain aflout long enough for the occu-
pants to leave saicly. The helicepter should bc
capable of remaining afloat in a condition of sea-state
threc if the normal helicopter mission is flown over
sheltered arcas or inland waterways; or in s condition
of five if missione are performed over open waters.
Two classes of floats bave emeigency flotation
capability: inflatable floats soć itching floats. The
inflatable floats, which can be sto at:i or f:ided at the
for inflatior. Inflatable Nosts art a lightveight and landing gear, use e storsge Snerg- at sir ar other ges
compact system, with a drag increase ti.as is only a
fraction of that of permanent floats. Inflatsble floats
can maintain the fuselage ciear of the water so that, in
the event of a forred landing in relatively calm
waters, repairs of a hninor nature may bc made to
allow the helicopter to take off again and compiete its
..ission. Becausc the floats are inflated ouly & few
hundred feet above the water (inflation time ranges
from 3 to 7 soc), pressure change with altitude is not a
design facter Floats normally are pressurized at
from 0.75 to 1.25 psi. For use with skid gear, these
floats are cylindrical shaped and are stowed on top of
cach skid. For wheel gear, the float is doughnat-
30 shaped and stored in a metal cage around each wheel.
Ditchtag tloats usually permit the water level to
cover :he floor of the crew or passenger compart-
ment. This hss the effocts of:
12-13