relubricagion for periodic from the need Α.side
(60Δ-hr intervals ate common) the greatest difficulty
for adequate sealing is providing with gear couplings
the grease. Guillotine slider seals and elastomeric
high angle ap- found in are most often boots
be while modified lip-type shafts seals can plications
used for low angle deg) operation. Shaft speeds (<I
of 20,000 rpm, which are now common, offer α dis-
tinct challenge to the designer since few seal designs
can tolerate the high centrifugal field. Overheating
dut, :ω of lubricant, followed !σ by plastic shear of
the hot teeth, is the predominant failure mode for this
type of coupling.
Fully hardened, ground, and properly modified
gear coupling teeth operate well with tooth loads in
the range of 50,000-70,000 psi at sliding velocities
well over 100 in./sec. Operation out-side of these
boundaries, use of improper tooth materials, and use
of inferior lubricants can result in contact melting,
smearing, and welding of the teeth.
Α method of determining the tooth load dis-
tributions for varying combinations of tooth crown
curvature, profile modification, misalignment angle,
and torque is given in Ref. 113. These loads may then
be used to calculate root fillet bending stress, Hert-
zian contact stress, and flash temperature indices as
shown in par. 4-2.2.1.2.
4-3.2.2 Bearings
for drive bearings of hanger design for The criteria
power normal the from considerably differ shafting
Π to loads The in gearboxes. used bearings loaded
very light are subjected are bearings hanger which the
for the bearing of is the capacity where C 10 < < (C/Π
and survival) probability 90% with cycles 10' of lire α
sizes are determined by the torque requirement of the
shaft through the bearing. With high tensile strength
heavy wall shafts used to reduce shaft outside
diameter, α relatively small bore (light) series bearing
can be used in the hanger.
Bcaring mounting on the shaft should be closely
controlled to assure true running and that internal
clearances are adequate to prevent radial preloading
Grease under operating temperature differcntials.
lubrication normally is used, and sealed nonrelubri-
catable as well as relubricatable bearings may be
used. The lack of adequate internal clearance is α
common design error found in many existing hanger
bearing designs.
Considerable effort has been expended, as des-
cribed in Ref. 114, to evaluate greases for hanger
bearings. The grease most commonly used is Μ IL-Γ-
81322.
4-80

by in the grease oil loss of the lubricating After
evaporation or migration, the common failure mode
is hanger bearings by grease lubricated exhibited
overheating, failure and expulsion of the cage. and
due shaft vibration, of balls. Severe finally, expulsion
or shaft to loss of centering provided by the bearing,
failure may follow loss of balls.
Degradation of the lubricant also is caused by en-
try of water or debris into the bearing. The means of
sealing bearings provided by bearing manufacturers
are generally inadequate to preclude α significant
failure rate in the Army environment unless ad-
ditional protection is provided. One such means is to
enclose the drive shaft with α cover to exclude the
bearing areas from the contaminating environment.
Another simpler, but less effective, means is to in-
stall rotating slingers on each side of the bearings
with closely controlled clearances at the slinger OD.
This providL shie.δ against the entry of water,
debris, or cleaning fluids during helicopter wash-
down. Although an effective seal may be designed
that will reliably assure reasonable bearing life (1000-
2000 hr), α hanger that is designed to permit re-
lubrication can greatly reduce hanger bearing re-
placement. Frequent introduction of α fresh charge of
lubricant can revitalize and/or purge the old charge
of contaminated and thickened grease. However. re-
lubrication adds to the maintenance burden and the
risk of servicing with an incorrect and unsuitable
lubricant is everpresent, but most lubricants will pro-
at least for the bearing of operation satisfactory vide
nonserviceable of selection period. The short α
is α designs or relubricatable bearings replaceable
bearing cost, as factors such many involving trade-off
and survivabili- re!iability, man-hours, maintenance
ty.
The design of the hanger assembly must be such as
to prevent inadvertent bearing overloads. Nominal
bearing loads are limited to shaft weight and ro-
tating unbalanced loads, neither of which should be
detrimental. However, misinstallation of the hanger
can introduce static angular misalignment between
inner and outer rings (shaft to housing) causing α
moment load to be imposed on the bearing. Al-
air- though system compliance (hanger, shaft, and
frame) may preclude loads of sufficient magnitude to
cause spalling fatigue, the bearing balls will skid as α
result of contact angle reversal due to these moment
loads. Such operation will cause cage distress and
overheating with abbreviated service life. Adequate
relief from angular misalignment, in the form of
proper internal clearances and/or self-aligning outer
ring mounting, must be provided in the hanger
design.