AMCP 706-202
specifics applicabie quality control roquiremronis.
Allowable strength of castings is discussed in Chapter
4, AMCP 706-201, and test and demonstrnticn re-
quirements 2re given in Chapter 9, AMCP 706- V3.
17-2.2.1 Sard Castings
Sand casting consists of forming α mold from sandi
compiessed around α suitable pattern of the part τ3
be made. removing the pattern, and pouring in
molten nictal to roplace the pattern. The advantages
of this process are: almost any metal may be used,
there is almost no limitation to the size or shape of
the part, and the process is relatively low in cost. In
addition, extreme complexity is possible, tool costs
sre low, and the proccas provides the most direct
route from pattern to moid. There are also disadvan-
tages:
1. Sand castings have rough surfaces.
2. Close tolerances are quite difficult to achieve.
3. Some alloys develop defects.
4. Long. thin projections are rot practicable.
5. Some machining usually is necessary.
17-2.2.2 Investment Castiags
Investment casting uses patterns of wax made in α
split mold. These patterns csn be combined into com-
coating. first with α fine slurry of refractory powder
and binder material and then with progressively
coarser layers of sand. When thc resulting mold is
baked, the wax is melted out (iost). Icaving α smooth.
wailed cavity into which the mctal is cast.
This process has the advantagcs of high di-
mensional accuracy, excellent surface finish, and
ncariy unlimited iniricacy. Moreover, almost any
metal may be used. However, thc size of the part that
can be for.med is limited, the labor cost is high, and
expensive patterns and molds are required.
17-2.2.3 Permanent Mold Castings
Ins the sand snd investment casting processes, the
mold is dastroyed during the removal of each casting.
In permanent mold casting. the molds are made of
metal, usually cast iron, die stecls, graphite, copper.
or aluminum. The permanent mold is machined for
dimensional tolerance and drait angles. Vent plugs
are inserted into the cavity to allow gases to escape
when the molter. metal is poured. The process is
readily automated, with many molds on α turatable
using α fixed pouring, cooling, and ejection cycle.
The procrss has the advantages of good surfacc
fini and grain strucure, high dimensional ac-
curacy, rapid production·rate, low scrap rate, and
low porosikty. Disadvantages include high initial mold
1.2

cost; limitations on the shape, sizs and intricacy of
castings; snd proccss limitations for metals with low
melting poines.
17-2.3.4 Ceatrttugal Castiags
In sand and investment castizg, the moid is filled
with inetal siepiy dy the force of gravity. En centri-
Ii gal aud centrifug: zasting α conritogal force 60-75
times tins fomos of grovity exerts prerurs on the meial
by spinning the get srihile θ molsen meres is
charged to it. The tnoll even may be rotased atanut
two axes. Ceutrifugal Sorce helps fll the abaold com.
pletely. Gases and impuities are concuntrateal near
the center of rotation, and gaseas egd rioess sre kept to
α minimum.
This method is particularly adapisble to smail, in-
tricate castings that otherwise wosid be diffcult io
gate. Α good surface finish is obtainod. However,
tocling costs for centrifugal caing aft high and the
castings mus: be syrmearical. Alloys of separable
metels may not be distriouted evenly.
17-2.3 FORGING
Thc forging of α meial pari inveivee hisating :
metal biank to α plastic state and hammering it into
shape. In thus proccas, great strength ie imparted be-
Cauze of the bencficial grain flow that takes place as α
result of the kneading action on the metal. The grain
fow is changed to tollow the contour of the part, re
sulting in α tough, fibrous structure. fsually, the
shaping takes place between closed dies that de-
termine the contour of the forged part. Forgings have
high strength, high impact strength, and great re-
sistance to fatigue, and are used for applicationz is:
shafts, axles, springs, geurs, rotor hube, and similar
moving parts. In the daign of forgings, it is ncues
sary to consider the lower level of strength normal to
the grain flow. This consideration may affect te
orientation of the grain flow as well ae the ctoßι sec-
tion of the part. The cost of forgings is subatantislly
higher than that of castings.
17-2.4 EXTRUSIONi
Extruding is α pracess in which α billet or slug of
metal is pressed by α ram until the pressure inagide the
work piece reaches the flow state of the materis!. The:
material then is squcezed through α die thsi coniains
an orifice of the deaired shape. Because uf the high re.
duction ratio, the mnetal has excclient sranaverse Buw
lincs. This provides greates strength in ihe longi-
tudinal direction and lower strength in the trans.erse
direction. The nonferrous alloys of aluminum, mag-
nesium, and copper are usod most common!υ for ex-
trusions, bu some stoel alloys are extrudabie.
Very compiex shapes are possible at α cost much