зо
pull tube, adjuatments must be provided so that
riem surface free play can be maintainod within speci-
fed λ'mite.
15-7 ELECTRICAL SUBSYSTEMS
the slectrioal subaystom. Thaee roccptacios sbal/ con-
form to MIL-C-7974 staaderds for cround power un-
ita. Provialons for grounding the bolicopter and ex-
upo ν npt ν in ν nd nAn inimum variety of ciect ical connectors should
be ueed. Connector seiection will follow instructions
containod in MIL-STD-1353. Provisions must be
msd to prevent incorroct connections.
Proviaions for Iubricating and coo'ing generators
and electric motors will be included in the design. Ac-
cnsribility to lubricating pointa, as well as for the in-
terchange, of ganorator and motor trusbes will be
providad.
u qn
special Γ. È requirod for its remnova! and in-
steflation. If zickal-cadmiun batterics are usod, the
designer stalf insure that water cannot be added to
the battary without first removing the battory from
das belicopoxr. (Thus procodure amures that watas will
battery is fully charged.)
The voltage rogulator sbouid be accossble to allow
for interconnocting the roquired test oquipment and
adjusting the regulator to the proucribed voleage level.
All fuees and circuit breakors sbal be vieible and
roudily accossiblc.
The internal and uxternal lighting instaliation
should provide easy aocees for instaflation of bulbs or
tubca.
Wiring rune must be designed to allow cesy accom
for the mainimanos oi wiring. Simiiar wiring cun-
noctions to idontical types of equipurent on α given
belicopter sbosald be wsed to avoid errors ia wiring
during installaticn, replucement, and maintanance. If
thare is α pomibility of connecting α GsE cable con-
necior to thg incorrori cable, the cable connoctor
keying sbould preclude suchs haterconncction. Com-
-oni aq pmoqe sorseuuco so eod Supeoq. vou
vided for connoctions betwoen the helicopter wiring
and the GSE.
The basic deign considerations for the edectrical
subaystem are deuribed in Chapter 7.
15-3 AVIONIC SUBSYSTEMS
Design considerations and requirements for
avionic subuystoms are describod in Crapter 8. Only
cnscotial VFR night conmuaication/navigation
avioaics are considored in this paragraph.
15-6

:
15-8.1 COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
Installations for the intercomm: rication se, com-
munication radios, «gnal light, and flare lauocher
must permit ready removal and replacoment of com-
ponents.
Wheu scif-test provisions are included, tost reaults
dne
justme τ cor trols must be rosdily accessible.
For oquipmont that does not include self-tost
foaturos, the doaign sbould permit external tost oquip-
mant to be connocted roadily. Pug-in connoctors
should bs used throughout the installation in order to
avoid breaking circuits for tost and adjustment pur-
poscs.
Break pointe should be provided close to the trans-
mitter and antenna equipment. The dosigner shouid
consider the use of diroctional couplers to simplify
maintenance. Whon tho directional couplers are used,
calibration indicators should be visible without
romoval of the units.
Chassis slides, runners, and tilting mechanisms
may be usod to facilitate sccssibility of avionic
oquipment When usod, those mochanisms should be
oquipped with devices for positive locking in both ez-
tended and retrected poaition. Handles should be
providod in ordar to simplify handling and removal.
Withdrawal should be in thc diroction of available
spacc. Cable lengths should be adoquate to permit
slide operation. Adequate space must bs available for
the inetallation and removal of mounting units and
acrews. Screws and bolts roquiring accces for main-
tenance should not be buried urder cablos.
Installation and test requiremants for inter-
communication systems and communication radio
sets are containod in the applicable commodity speci-
fications and data.
154.2 NAVIGATION SYSTEMS
The GSE intariace considerstions and roquire-
meats sppticable to the communication system also
apply to the navigation system. In addition, con-
siderations must be given to the necessity for align-
ing the direction finder antennas and indicators
during maintenance. Sin arly, ths gyrosyn compass
rysiem alignment roquirepentr must be considerod in
the installation design.
Spocific installation and test requirements for the
navigation systonzs are contained in individual com-
modity spouifications and data.
15-9 HYDRAULIC AND PNEUMATIC
SUBSYSTEMS
The hydraulic and pneumatic subeystam design
roquiremonts are discuieed in Chapter 9.