7Ω6202 AMCP
ports in the plates. Many porting arrangements are
available, and thiee- and four-way mulitpl.-pssuge CYUNOE3 CYLINORJ
α easily. of can be &chived One advantage valves 2 1
and it can be reworked plAte valve is that sliding
to compensate for wear. lapped
as α to operate readily cat, be adapted ball valve Α
on of outlets by the aldition valvc multiple-passage
the bell body and additional porting ;he in valving
on the body, outlet connections element. With three
variety of three-way can be made into α the ball valve
IRE upon -• valves, depending the porting utilized TUN in the I -
CvLIi ball.
Α rotary slide valve is usrd more commonly α as
PFFs9 multiple-passage as RE. Τ valve than shutoff α two-way
valve. Rotary slide, multipl-pasage valves consist,
v.YL aesntially, of ι.ε., two parts, the body and α rotating 2 C
plate (Fig. 9-60). The body contains either three or
I (Α) POSITION four outlets to provide α three- or four-way valve
configuration, and the rotary plate contains various
as porting arrangements so to achieve α multiplicity
of three- or four-way valve types.
Α valve actuator is α power unit that proviies α
mechanical operating force for positioning α valving
element. The actuator may be eith-.ρ direct-acting cr -
piloted. The direct-acting valve actuators include
vo torque motors, each used indepcadently. Piloting,
small the use of α power input to control α Σ Rinvolving
piston- such with common is source, power largcr I Λ
pnou- electro-pneumatic., the actuators as cylinder Π•F. Ω o
matic-hydraulic, pneumatic-pneumatic ω.•mbins- or
tions. Most aerotracc valves powered by rtmotc- are
rCYL 2 control, or automatic, actuators Linear actuators
used in aerospace valves include solenoids, pisto.-
(Β) BLOCKED POSITION cylinders, bellows, and diaphragms. Rotary actu-
motion, for used to impart linear ators also can be
actu- example, through α rack and pinion. Linear
ators aiso can used to be impart rotary motion by
stern driving an internally threaded valve: attachment
"with α threaded rotating shaft. The actuator may be
separate either an integral part of the valve, or α
device linked mechanically to the valve. Solenoids,
servo and piston-cylinders, bellows, diaphragms, Ii R torque motors are usually in, :ral parts of the valve. PRESSURE
I valve commonly the to linked are Electric motors CYL I α etc. /EýΛý gear train, σ*ρ•ω drive, Valve actuator Π REthrough C
positioning requirements can be divided into two PRESS RE.Τ
gh-oupb:
I. actuators for Two-position, or nonmodulating, CYL 2
"on-ofr* valves shutoff and valves control
(C) POSITION 2 2. Modulating actuators for positioning control
valves; pneumatic and hydraulic piston-cylinder ac-
tuators commonly are used with valve positioners,
α Figure 9-59. Directional Control Vahe--Foar-way and provide feedback loop between the control
9-40