:γ 1;
The other common physical form for structural ad-
hesives is the two-part liquid mixture. These
materials consist of two components that react, when
mixed. to form α thermoseting solid. Usually. they
are 100% nonvolatile. Many cure at room tempera-
ture: in α few hours or days: others require heat to
curc. Frequently, they are in thc form of high-vis-
cosity pastes containing inert fillers and/o: thixo-
tropi: agents. In contrast te most film adhesives.
however. hese uncured pastes usually become fluid
wher. heated. Pot-lives, like cure tir.es, depend upon
the rate of chemical reactivity, which is influenced
greatly by temperature. Thus, adhesives that cure
rapidiy at room temperature may have only α few
minutes of pot-life. while those requiring high-
temperature cures have pot-hives varying from hours
to months.
Less common structural adhesive forms include
one-component pastes and powders, and all require
elevated-temperature cures.
Essentially all structural adhesives of interest for
helicopter applications are based upon either epoxy
or phenolic thermosetting resins. Because ihese
materials are brittle inberenty, they usually are vaade
fexibie with elastomers or thermoplastic resins in
order to improve peel strengths. Polyurethane ad-
hesives also show promisc, as they can be fornulated
with both strcngth and flexibility. To date, however.
they have not been used widely in structural aircraft
applications.
Epoxies ar: the most versatilc and widely used
structural adhesives. They have excellent adhesion,
low crecp. low shrinkage during cure, and 100% non-
volatility. The liquid or paste types have cither low
peel properties o: inited :emperature resistance, and
are iess adapia. : : io modification (for improvemeat
of these pasticular characterissi:σ) than are the film
iypes. The latter can be modificd with tougn thermo-
plastics such as rylo: or polyvinyl acetal resins.
Primers (low-viscosity solutions of adhesive dis-
soived in solvents) arc available for use in con-
junction with modificd epoxy-filhn adhesives. Their
primary function. is to protect prepared metal sur.
faces from contamination and oxidation since epoxy
films havc adequate weuing and adhesive charac-
teristics without primers.
Phenolic adhesive: used in the aircraft industry
always are modificd üη an clastoiner or another
resin Although they can be protuced ν liquid form,
they now are used predominantly as films. Vinyl (po-
ly vinyl formal or butyral) phenolic adnesives were the
first materials ues o aircraft metal bonoing.
Rubber-phenolic suissives include those modified
with ncoprene or nitrik rubber. the latter presently

AMCP 706-202
heing the most widely uscd type of ela tomer-
phenolic structural adhesive. Epoxy-phenolics are
used primariy because Sf their outstanding tempera-
ture reuistance. Being very rigid, they have good shear
strength and creep resistance but poor peel and im-
pact properties. Bccaus: of the poor weting and now
characteristics of the elastomer-phenolc films, α
conting of liquid primer on the substrates usually is
advised. As with all phenolic condensation re-
actions. gases are evolved during cure, necessitating
relatively high bonding pressures The actual pressure
required to contain these volatiles is α function of the
temperature rise rate: 100 psi is α typical recommen-
dation when the bondline is heated rapidiy.
All of the adhesive types discussed previously may
be used for metal-to-metal bonding. The selection
will depenc upon the relative importance of such fac-
tors as shear strength, peel strength, temperature
resistance, chemical resistance, fatigue and ereep
properties. fabrication method, and cost. Generally.
α modified epoxy or nitrile-phenolic film adhesive is
chosen for primary structural applications, while α
paste-type epoxy and simple contact tooling may suf-
fice for secondary structures with les -critical require-
ments. The requirements for several classes of struc-
132 and MMM-Α-134. Although there is some over-
Japping. MMM-Α-132 is concerned mainly with film
adhesives while MMM-Α-1 34 generally has less strin-
gent requirements which are met by the liquid- and
paste-type epoxies.
Cured, reinforcec-plastic composites can be bond-
ed to themselves or to metals with the same ad.
hesives and techniques used for bonding mnetals. In
addition, adhesive prepregs can be used ei:her for an
entire la; up or :σ α single-ply bonding layer beiween
α conventional reinforced-plastic layup and the sub-
strate. These in iterials consist of α siructural grade of
reinforcement :mpregnated at α high resin content
witth α resin formulatior. having good «dhesion quali-
tics. Reinforced plastics can be bonded to metals and
other substrates by employing between the substrate
and layup α layer of conventional film adhesive that
is cured simultancously with the laminatc. This pro-
cedure is advantageous in that it precludes any mis.
mateh of μ ting surfaces. α protlem that always
exists to sorne extent with preformed parts. While this
technique has been found effective with γ number of
adàesive and laminating resin combinations. such
maierials must be selected carefully for compatibility
with both chemical reactions and curing tempera-
tures and pressures.
Most of the cpoxy adhesives also are suitab!τ for
bonding facings to honeycomb core in applications
2-31