Σ~AMCP
5-6.1.3 Airfoil Se..lon ms
In addition to the usual need for high lift-to-drag
ratios, stall angles, and critical Mach numbers, rotor
blade airfoils require low pitching moments. Airfoil
pitching moment coefficients that vary appreciably
with angle of attack give periodic pitch link inpats
that are undesirable and that, in turn, can lead
periodic forces and vibrations. Thus, although
forward the angle of attack varies with flight
muth, it is desirable that the blade pitching moment
coefficient not vary. Usually, it is preferred that
pitching moment corre- coefficient be zero so the
sponding loads do not vary with the variati3ns of
local airspeed.
The usual starting point in airfoil selection is
minimization of rotor power requirements for
design cruise and hover conditions. Two-dienen-
sional airfoil drag data at the design lift coefficient
arc used in this determination. The static variation
along with coefficient Mach number, with drag
divergence boundary, also ι- used. change in the drag
The drag reduction potential of thin airfoils is
known, and has the greatest effect near the blade
due to thc higher Mach numbcr environment therc.
economay For ease and of manufacturing, α thin
"foil at he blade tip usually is auhieved with α uniform
root-to-tip thickness taper.
On the other hand, the ret. -ating blade stall
drag divergence characteristics of thick sections
superior to those of thin sections in several series
airfoils. In the low Mach number region of the disk,
the thick sections allow α higher lift coefficient to
cbtained before the onset of drag divergence. How-
 4 ck ever, the advantage of these "! sections is reversed
in the high Mach nuinbec environment. Tnus, the
foil section characteristics for the advancing and
retreating blades are in conflict,
The addition of airfoil camber ana increased
low-specd- leading edge raduis tends to improve the
stall characteristics of the symmetrical airfoil sections
high commonly MAch '-sWd .or rotor blades. At
numbers, ;o the eftect of camtrcr is decrease
lPit maA'muni obtawable coefficient. However,
riot effect is too significant because low lift coerfi-
cir -- ts are desired in the advancing blade, high Mach
number region. Camber generally is applied to
forward portion of the rotor blade airfoil cross
tion in order to retain low pitching moment coeffi
cients. This leads to the "droop snoot" terminology
used by at least one contractor. In some instances, the -. J
trailing edge is reflexed slightly to counteract
• otherwise unavoidable amount of pitching momenz
\ and the corresponding cyclic control loads.
method of eliminating undesirable pitching moments

706-202
ω .,,,,,
may have undesirable effects on blade profile power.
extend the low airfoils cambered same time, At the
Mach number, retreating blade drag divergence
boundary lift to regions correspording to greater co-
cfficicnts. However, this bcneficial effect disappears
as Mach number is increased.
Α further benefit of the delay of compressibility
to effects due to the use of thin, cambered airfoils is that
in noise levels due to these effects are, in general,
azi- decreased for α given flight condition. The noise
generated by α blade intersecting α tip vortex is
the affected only to the extent that the vsrength of the
vortex is affected. This particular form of noise is
.railed caused by α tip vortex being intersected by the
following blade, with α rcsukhnt rapid change of
the angle of attack. The corresponding pressure change
θ causes the slapping noise that is characteristic of heli.
copters. At α given flight speed, α lower lift-to-drag
(Λ/Δ) ratio will reduce the vortex strength and hence
of lower the noise.
could be ,:re used or that airfoil sections Several the
are shown in Fig. 5-28. The used in helicopter blades
well main geometric properties of these air foils such as -
tip thickness ratio, leading edge radius, and camber -
are ε identified in this ligure.
It, air- addition to the characteristics shown, some
blades possess α thin, teailing edge extension strip
that extends beyond tWe "true," airfoil trailing edge.
and In the usual blade, this strip 'σ osed as α base to whi..η
are θ. upper and lowrr skins are bonded. The strip can
of be tailored in length uf and thickness, or number
to laminates, obtain the dcsir'δ edgewise stiffness
be and fatigue properties. Airfoil characteristics shown
in Fig. 5-28 also can be used joirtly so that the
δ-si, ,nle properties of seve.el characteristics can be
air- incorporated into one airioil. For example, α blade
design could be based on α thin airfoil with ε dtoop
nose. This would combine the benefits of reduced
rh drag an the hi Mach number advancing blade tip
3
ιýι:η increased maximum lift coeflicient on the
retreating biade. This hypothetical blade could be
iarpe modified further with α leading edge radius, and
the could have its aft section produced with straight
this "slzb" sides. These changes would improve, respec-
tivcly, the abruptness of the blade stall chatacter-
istics and the ease of manufacturing khe blade aft sec-
the tion honeycomb er web structur-ε. Further, the
sec- machining of the main bonding molds for α slab-
ι ded blade will be easier, hence, less expensive. - The
decreasz in blade flapwise, edgewise, and torsional
stiffnesses ca.sed by this particular geometric shape
an could be restored with the proper slection and
layups of advanced materials such as boron or graph-
This ρ.τ ite composite., but the slab-sid,:δ airfoil may pro-
value vide as high α of By ,use of this type of LID.
5-39