.. • , AMCP 7_06-202
CHAPTER 2
MATERIALS
2-1 INTRODUCTION factors, standard mill products, and cost data. tl,.IL-
HDBK-5 is α source of mechanical properties data
This chapter addresses the properties of the various and provides additional detail design data. For
materials used in the construction of helicopters, technical data and information pertaining to wrought
These materials include ferrous and nonferrous iron, carbon steels, and low-alloy steels, an exccllent
metal. nonmetallic materials, composite structures, N4IL-IIDBK-723, source is which covers some of the
adhesives and seplants, paints lubri., and finishes, more practical aspects of -ecta! forming and joining.
cants, greases, and hydraulic fluids. Among the for Finally, design data and metallurgical details, the
ferrous me:als are carbon steel, stainless steel, and al- designer should consult the various American Society
:oy steels. The nonferrous mttals include aluminum, of Metals (ASM) Handbooks.
magnesium and titanium alloys, beryllium, copper, Because of weight considerations, it is desirable to
brass, and bronze. Thermoplastic and thermosetting restrict the heavier ferrous metals to those applica-
plastics, elastomers, woods, fabric, and fluoroplas- tions where very high strength, α high modulus of
are tics reviewed. Composite structures, including rigidity, high resistance to fatigue, and high modulus
filament laminates, fabric laminates, and filament of elasticity are reqaired.
wound, and honeycomb and sandwich construction The more expensive high-performance steels often
ake discussed αý are the adhesives used for bonding of are more economical in terms of weight, cost, and
primary structure, honeycomb and compo3ites, fatrication processes lower-cost than are the ferrous
γ1.σ; and products. fahris, rbhhr, ε'astomers, rlastics. Anplications for these materials include
) Sealhng compounds, such as putty and pastc;, also are high-sirt-ss parts such as rotor drive shafts, masts,
de.ai!ed. Α discussion of paints and coatings, special hubs. vertical hinges, flapping hinges, tie cables,
finishes, plating, and tapes is included, as well as re- α ti'bular frames, an6 control cams, keys, gears, and
view of θ,. most commonly used lubricants and their hydraulic cylinde-.σ.
applications.
The designer will find that α good working re- 2-2.1.2 Carbon Steels
lationship with vendors wii! help him to keep abreast The carbon steels are iron-base α broad group of
rtiatvrials new of and processes with possib!τ appli- alloys hav ing small amounts of carbon as their prin-
to cations helicopters. New materials are being iii- cipal alloying element. Commonly, the carbon con-
troduced continually, and new processes alter the tent falls between 1.2%. 0.03 and The American Iron
cost and performance relationships among older and Steel Institute (AISI) codt usually is used for
designating ι.ι..ι σ•ate Tins ystm , -. . .. ,. ... Uup.. α Or fuui-- to conform one or more Government specifications, five-digit number to designate each alloy, with the -' -: and many manufacturers take step, to keep their first digits referring to the alloy and the last two digits
products on the qualified-products lists, where such giving the carbon content in points of carbon. where
are requiret. Propei regazd for and awareness equal of one point is to 0.01%. Thus, 1045 steel is one of
these concerns in design callouts will simplify pro- α series of nonsulphurized carbon steels and has
curernent, fabrication, and qualification of hard- 0.45% carbon. σ.ies Other carbon steel II are the XX
•arc. series, which are resulpherized; the BIIlXX series,
which are acid Bessemer resulphurized, and the
2-2 METALS 12XX series, which are rephosphorizcd. Low-carbon
medium- carbon, to 0.30% 0.05 from stee'σ range FERROUS METALS 2-2.1
carbon steels range from 0.30 to 0.60% carbon, and
2-2.1.1 General high-carbon steels range from 0.60 to 0.95% carbon.
Thik dis•:ussion provides α brief review of ferrous The machinability of low-carbon steels is poor.
metalk and their application to the construction of They tend to drag and smear and to build up on the
helicopters, some as well as of of the parametcrs cutting edges of tzols, generating heat considerable
go)vernling the choice of α particular ferrous metal for and decreasing cutting cffiricncy. Medium-carbon
specifi as α steels machine .better, although the cutting pressures
R" AP•'','•, moreconpreheisivc discussion, as well as detail are higher. High-.arbon steels are too hard for good
\,dcsign data, will be found in Chapter 9, AMCP 70%- machining, but they are used where fine finish and di-
hich describes such items as mater'al selection accuracy mensional are required. Hot- and cold-
ρ accrac 27I