Α Π
•-detail design. Such require ments -- without
Ssideration of their relative importance include -
Sfoimancc, reliability, maintainability, and surviva-
bility.
--•
4-1.2.1.1 Perfoima|ε'
The contribution of the drive system to heclicoptecr
performance can defined in be various ways. lHow-
ever. the folluwing factors predominate:
Weight 1.
2. Efficiency
Size Σ3.
4. Noise le' el.
Subsysitem Weight 4-1.2.1.1.1
system and drive the transmission of Weight
toge~her size to compact attention by minimized
for dynamic materials use of with the high-strenlgth
material of the use make maximum that components
pr-rmissibic the limits of within available properties
requirements Superior reliability and rates failurc;
~ ~ ~ ~q . oLc .~ . . = . . .. . . o . λ Μ:. , ..... α it . . - -Α..
housings or cast for forged aterial -δ ensity μ low
because import-.nt is latter The necessary. :'%•are
~ ~~box λ•_-• housings comr.prise from 20 to of total trans- 60%
designs.4-.112TrnmsinEfcey current in weights mission -
SExcessively stage generally per ratios gear large
determined primarily size is The pinion weight. •'••.•add
Slisted
-- ? the torque. transmitted by and is relatively
Spendent of the the weight but star ratio; o1' the member increases roughly us the square of the ratio.
Large ratios per stage usually also are inefficient.
mConsidering the sib of support structure and bear-
ings, as well as of the gears thmselves, the gear
themselvgs increasing weight and power by
1.(for approximately equal gtaon ratios) in the
ing manner: drives: or planetary Th Concentric epicyclic devices
falr4α4 ν ciblt eurmnsSpro
Star reversing rotation. β. - 2. Parallcl-axis drives: spur, helicalo and horring- ~uiiycotrlinpr~~sngad
*Ii'!
bone
flterslwing-axis 3. drives: spiral bevel and
This ordering reflects the effects, in addition to intended speed change per stageW of additional
.que vector translations and rotations. The
Σ|centric torque axis; does not alter tht dri-'€ drive requires α translation of output .paralll vector
with respect to itruto and the intprsrcting-axis
introduces new coordinate tfrough α tht rotation
the output vtttor with ocspect to input.
The selection of drive types should follow the given
ranking, beginning at the ouput drive. Also, the
plargst reductions should bw•ith kn cloto to the

-0τ&- -.
con- output, with smaller amiounts of torque being carried.
per- as the distance from the output incmueses. The wecight
of any gear reduction stage is proportienal to the se-
cond or third power of the torque. Therefore. itorth-
while weight savings can be made using by drives in
the order ranked concentric -- drives near thc out-
put, parallel-axis types at intermecdiate or conmbining
stages, and intcrsecting-axis types nearest the engine
if drive direction changes arc required. "
There are occasional instances where these rules -
may not apply: high reduction ε.γ., ratio may un- be
desirable at secondary-lcvcl power outputs, such as
tail rotor or auxiliary propellers. because of the long
distance from the helic:optcr Althou~gh CG. thc total
less with α low'cr tur- weight may be drive subsystemn
dif- becoine it may shafting, by being carried qie is
to the due location CG satisfactory α to obtain ficufqt and
higher ratio of the weight extra of the larger nmoment
stage. reduction final
main helicopter of current weight,% specter- The
J for re- Ih/hp 0.50 to 0.30 from in range gearboxes
ext -1 ) . Then ( F ig . 4 to 7 4 :1 o φ 1 5 :1 u χ tio nra tio δ
oin.. .... dr " ... this lrndlcx uly ω il . U ||uuubtic uc •:auc also
0Z2 level. the gear-
4-IZl. TnmsonEfcey(
is power transmission efficient for requirement The
those other than types that gear such importance of
in pai. 4-1.2.1.1.1 seldom are considered ind¢-•
drive re-Ain po%%cr to the for application sc~iou.;υ gear
oor
types η-
worder ris loss
follow-cri.τ u
pt prl- xd
gabxsi ag rm03 o05 bh o ε
= sg ν itrct-atr ducionrtoom51τ 4: H.4I.Ten
φ
hypoid.reurd
the /,/ " tor-thcs χ-rules*Δ
con-
""--AH'IG vhe dre on Q,
β of τ driveo-ellers,
of
TActEOFF lopt PO*FCR 10"
F jure 4-1. Helicopter Main Gearbox
os final Weight Takeoff Power