*γ: 706-202
9-2.7.2 Hydranic Pumps
The bydraulic pump is the heart of thc hydraulic
ayuan. and. therciore, is of prime imporiance. It is.
however. tbe primary sousce of system heat energy
due to its inherent inefficiencies.
The basic aitesuatives for pumps are the Fixed-dis-
placement and the variabke-displacement, constant-
pressure types. The fixed-displacement unit cen be
ν ν
valves or combination unloaser valve-accumulator
sysiems, for pressure control. The fixed-displace-
ment system is relatively heavy. In addition, τ tends
to liave higher heat generation ievels than the vari-
abic-displacement typc. Censequently, thc fixeá-dis-
placement pump is not in general use except ι low-
pressure-levei systems.
The conventional variable-displacement pump has
constant-llou capability through speeds up to the
pressure control cut-in point. which is approxi-
mately 2850 psi for α 3000-psi system. As the demand
decicases beiow the full displacement capability, the
control de-strokes the pump until, at zero output
Now, the pressure is maintained at 3000 psi nomins!.
Thc compe: sated pressure setting can vary from 2950
τ5 3050 psi betw cen pumps. Fig. 9-29 shows these
characteristics.
Modifications of the basic control are available.
One variation used for horsepower limiting is the
soft-cutoff, relatively constant horscpower approach.
Fig. 9-30 shows the control reducing flow at 1.500 psi
F.On. σ OF FUL R.OP ю
0 1000 осог ооа 4000
жю 05Ξ€
.90 1553
Figur: Σ-29. Hydrsuiic Pump Fiow vs Pressure
Characteristics
1Δ EHAT CUPOA
10% ρ1
жытюю ю Γ , τ CONSTMT
01 ю
1
σ ю 2000 3000 00.00
PNEMAM po.
Pigare 9-30. Hydreulic Punp Soft Cutoff
Caracteristias
9-18

and continuing on α linear basis until it staches ste:
sandard sharp pump levet. There, in rewerts ic sharp
cutoff control. Superimpczed on 5ig. 9 30 is :
cutoff and thet, when compares to the pen' 'one-
power of & sharp cutoff pump, shows & sgaiicent
reduction in the power required to drive the pump.
This is α definite advantage where the drivisg Sorye-
powcs is limissd, and significant waight can be saw:τ
in, for example, an clectric motes. Howeser, some o:
the weight savings is offsct by the larger lises required
1o maintain subsysuem rstes with 1530 psi availeble
for load and line loss versus the conventicna! 3ξ50.
psi capability.
Another type oi control offers α high respusse
capability because of she large control vetve utga?
with pump hanger feedback as required for stebilize-
tion of the pump controi sysiem. The capability to
respond to both on and off demards aliows the dele-
tion of the accumulator. resulting in savings 88
weight, maintenance, and servicing. In addition, 'he
pump has better overshoot-undershooi chars xes-
istics than has the conventional purmg-accur Di
system. Tnereforr. pressure peaks &re Jower aa
system fatigue life is impicved.
Pump case drain characteristics are imsportae: tq+
satisfactory system and pump operation. The zuxp
shall have α minimum case drain flow as α functior. χ';
back pressure. This is required in order to climi-pie
pump overload and failure during operation in :à
compensated or near-cempensated mode. An upper
limit on case pressure buildup due to Nlow restriction
is necessary in order to avoid φ.;3σ cf the system as α
result of failure of the pump or case drain sy 3u-μ: as α
pressure wassel Thçse .ninimum-maximum case dreit-
characteristics arr shown in Fig. 9-31.
Α BOY IT N/O V5
APCIMMACTELETICS
WAXM IAFIER QUALLFICATLONL
MAXMUM
SIAmLIZED Γ- ERATInNG
POWTS IN Α SYSTEM
. CHLAMACTERISTIC 'THICA PUMR
100 00 ь
CAE MERARE MMAL, ACTION PIUIBURE DO'
Figere 9-31. Hydraallc Puamp Case Drsin Flow
Ciarecteriotics