AMCP ?06-202
10-3.6 RATE-OF-CLIMB INDICATORS Typically. these mi;;mum requirements are met with
mechanization The of atet-of-climb indicStors ι three instruments: clock, standby magnrtic compau. dTeribed in par. 9-3.4.2. Rate-of-climb indicators in- and radio magnetic indicator (RMI) which displays
descibe inpair 9-.4.. Rae-o-dib inicaorsin- the last throc of the given functions on an instrumentm
sta;ed in Army helicopters shall be the rapid re-
10-2. Fig. in shown that to similar "spoan of range scale α with type accelerometer-aided
CONUS extensive requirements include mission If fpm. 6000
indicator similar to course IFR flight, α simplfrid
that shown in Fig. 10-3 may be added to provide 104 NAVIGATIONAL INSTRUMEN- VOR/ILS course deviation; or the functions of the
TATION
RMI, and course indicator. combined on α hori-
10.4.1 GENERAL zontal situation indicator (HSI) similar to that shown
additional capa- the provides HSI The 10-4. in Fig. in Army used systems navigational of types The
selected navi- the to displaying the distance of bility ω the mission upon are dependent hslicoptcrs
to display The capability way-point. aid or gation will be be installed to equipment of The tynes signed.
selected to bearing and 'in kilometers) range both of model for each detail specification the by defined
requirements mission if be provided stJll -aypoints indicate will als specification detail helicopter. The
(NOE) navigation. nap-of-θ••narth include contractor-furnished mad Government-furnished
equipment. This paragraph discusses the types of
navigation instrumentation most commonly em-
ployod in Army helicopters. The navigational systems
2 3 that these dhaplays are based upon and the functions
performed by than are described in par. 8-3.
10-41 TWYES OF INSTRUMEN'rS Ξ
& is flight IFR for required The instrume.,tation J .
dzifirned in AR The 95-1. mininuimn rc-quired naviga-
tion instrumentation is:
Magnetic 1. compass with current calibration card
2. Clock with sweep second hand
referenceFR heading 3. Gyrt-stsbilized
4. Automatic direction finder (ADF)
VOR 5. receiver (if VOR facilites are to be used). OPA(
01. HORIZONTAL POINTER
RECIPROCAL o POINTER 02Α Ar
POINTER VERTICAL R 3.
4. POINTER COURSE
KNOB SELECTOR COURSE 5.
Figure 10-2. Indicator RadIo Magetlk Figure 1ε-3. Course Imilkator
10-5