thruat snc an adverye fin force of saarly 2Σ% of tas
rauaining tait rotor thrust. Ths Jecmeass of offec.
tivenors reaudto in an iarease iz mqmired porer. asd
caukd isaflusricr Ethe rotor soliasty roquired to provent
blads zali (Res. 61). Toots Bave shown avbasastial ion-
provatent ir fxvntrol capa ality in Gais criticel conti-
tion ω'neu Jn disoctios of roiatioa is revurros (Raf.
χ3). This inspre: cuzont appenvetly is Gue to the bigher
rcietive vicity os the aisflow vvar tho tail rotoc
bacutse tse todl roror ia tusaieg isto. os against, the
mais rotor dowawgsh instoad of turring in she same
dicectionr. Thesefore, tail rotors nommally are
desigor: to rotate with 3be tatan blenie moving
forazed.
VORTEX REG
WINEMILL BRAKE NO VORTEX RIAN:
STATE
LEFT RIGAT
Figura 5-52. Sidewarä Flght Veiocity
5-9.ε.5 Eagibe Enharai
Possible drastic redoctiosas : tail rotor thrust lue
to tbe ingcution by the tail ro.or of boi exbsus gaocs
(vith resuhiant rectwrd air denaity, should br acosded
ty caseful deaiga sad placemont of cagine exbeusts.
und by suiasrquent testing.
5-9.5 TAIL ROTON LCGICN PARAMETERS
Ihr phyaicel size cf α tail rotor rill depend upon
tAc losdirg. tip apees?, blade tiwisi, and sirfois section.
Eaane tane panumciax infuene the iratalled
weighi, il is coacutary ts determine tcoir intearela-
tionstip in o-des to opiimize the design.
3τ Σ.τ Tal Relper Bsd Lontg
As in te maia rotos. the power required to
ssvate thrust depends upon the dis losding. urd
Ibas on the ciszrter melocted. As notad in Fic 5-53,
the powa requirsn incrcascs with increared dial
kooding: ι.χ.. ikrus: loscling. Ib/tp. decrenrts. To
minikoire the pare: raguirod, ios disk londings aut
incx.ν: !. Hcorewr, as votzd ι2 pnr. Σ-γ.Α.3, it is pre-
fezis: ihst the disk Mundkngz be suflciantly bigh to
IEnp 18 Σ σ rs Cio Pp? ant

14
12
=Yan(C/C)
10
= 0 deg
TiAUST LOADING Τ/hp, Ib/hp •• 6
2
ο 10 20 30 40
DIS: LOADING Τ/Α, psf
Figae Σ-Σ3. Tal Retar Porfas.ance, Four Biedes
sidevard fligh* to the left. Tail rotor wcight and
boum size incmare as disk bosds decresse. Thus, the
final seloction of tail rotor di.κ loeding will dcpeod
upon tixe ovcrell trade-off of requirod power versus
tail rotor disncter.
5-σ.5.2 Tal Ruter Ty Speed
Tail rotors are decigned to operate at tip spceds of
oo-sao fpr. For α given thrust requiremcot, tail
rotwrs opesating ai low tip spoeds will need higher
aligities to obtain the reguiret operating Ct. The
io: tip spocs aioos iicreases the torque of the drive
systean. Thee fectors both increasz thc overail wsigh:
of thn antite rque syste. Higher tip sprods can result
sn blade eeroxlynarsic compressibility loasce with cot-
responding prwer fosses, bich conirol forons, biade
lesding adge ercaion problens, and higher noise
koonds (Fig. -54).