-xa Jo squdaun poqd sorge og aouodens a
юuя be determinad.
A
uiroments are givon by REIL-H-aSO1 for all but the
wursical axia. Some complication arines with the intro-
Cou ppiqa 'sdooq wogmomitee Argqe jo noganp
seod so reduos the costrol somsitivity. This effioct cae
pndug ponnco jo groun sq q sarcanno sq
1 -forward аrтa at. T'hia approach sot only
aous uae of Nigh-gaig ntntion for minissu..
onposae tu estersel disterbanoe, but also providos
tihe doired sonsitivity to pilot inpute.
In addition to specificatioas for Jongitudinal coa-
Srol scneitivity. MIl.-H-8501 procnts a crisorion for
mansuver sability. It statos that. following a
spacifiod stop input, tbe accelaration and pitch rate
rosponse shet be concave dowaward and con-
vergent in not more than 2 sec aftcr the start of thc is-
put. A shorter time is decirod for attaining a stabi-
vorisg capability is cucantial to thc miscion. Analysis
caa indicate mothods of maximizing this per-
formsece by considering various combinstions of
foed-forward and loop closures. Suck analysis should
include any significant structural dynamics. Fo:
cxamplc, clasticity of the rotor mounting causes a
major increase in the time roquired for the response
to become concave downward (Ref. 2).
Tt also is desirable to analyze the transient response
to puise imputs. This responsc will indicate the heli-
copter bchavior in turbulent ais. An apscssment of the
attitudc time historics, and the time interval required
to reacquire the initial trim fight condition with
alternate stability augmentation schemes, is
secommended. For augmentstion sysiems employ-
ing some form of pilot control feed-forward, the
puise should be inserted downstream cf the aug-
mentation system so as to simulate a turbulence en-
counter :.nce pilot pulsc imput into such & system is
not equivalent to an atmospheric pulse.
In addition tö the transient response analyses
noted, transients associated with the following
maneuvers should be asscssed with respect to SAS
authority, control margins, and vchicle capability:
1. Jump takeoff
2. Rapid acceleration from kover to maximum
Ievel specd
3. Quick stop
4. Autorotation entry and recove:y
5. Hovering turns
6. Pedal-fixed turn entrics and recoveries
7. Fixoó collective, constant spead turn entry and
recovery.
The characteristics of residual, limit-cycle os-

QACP 706-2022
be maintaigod wichic axcnpiabie
Joj myug 3qiaco go xe * spueead 19 ape.1 gn
moc by tive
Fig. 6-3 ie a grapbical presuntacion of allowabie
o o
hen thbe high-frequancy limnait, anguakie:r
rale eriablinies ths middio-froquency range, and an-
nabtiabas the tow-froquency
mnit.
6-2.1.5 Oebx Facturs
The stabiliay and control roquairemonts specifiod ur
o
jectives for tihe flight control systona. Therefore, caci
vortigatod to insure that it docs not violaie theec
oparational roquirementa. Ofien, a stabifity aug-
formance for smali-perturtation mancuvers or dis-
during large disturbances and atmospheric tur-
bulence because of its rate-limiting or saturation
charestaristics. Aben, it becomce neosnssgy 10 -
tablish the operational limits of the flight control
system through analyais and experiment. If the
system limits vehicle stability. it muzt be re-
configured appropriately in order to assure spoci-
fication compliance. Fligkt conditions for which such
studics must be made include high-rate vehicke
motions, regions where stability may de sensitive or
highiy nonlincar, and turbulent air.
The influence of flight control system scnsor out-
puts upon vehicle stability also must be considered
and monitored in order to assure proper design and
operation. For example, a vertical gyro employed as
a pitch angle sensor in a bouly axis coordinate sysiem
will introduce significant inter-axis coupling at large
bank angles, becausc the gyro operates in an earth-
axis coordinate system.
The effoct of atmospheric or self-induced tur-
bulence upon helicopter stability and control requires
significant attention. A vehiclc that has satisfactory
handling qualitics in calm air may exhibit large at-
titude and rate responses, inciuding poor spced hold,
in gusty air due to poor modal damping or to control
loop nonlinearitics. Response to atmospheric tur-
bulence shall be evsluated over thc entire flight en-
velope. MIL-F-8785 provides criteria suitab': for
gust analyses in cruising flight. Attention also shall be
given to special operating requirements, such as an
external cargo hookup, where gusts or wind shifts
often incrcase the demand upon the position sta-
bility augmentation system.
Many nonhelicopter rotorcraft are subjoct to sta-
67