17-1 INTRODUCTION
This chaptur discuases the proceses usod in tic
manufacturing and xarensbiy phascs of helicopter
procaecos - casting, forging, extruzion, and sheet-
motel forminag. Mochine shop practices and bazic
typa of machine tools alao are discusesd. The
metibods of joining — such as welding. brazing, and
soddering - are discuceod, as are the procesacs of
mnechanical fastening. booding, swaging. and cabie
splicing. Various typos of beat trcatment are
deasribed, inciuding streas relieving, conventional
quenchiag and tempering, aging. ard surface
peouing and burnishing, are addressor, tngether with
the types of matoriais and parts whoec fatigue-
reistance improves as s reeuit ef procoming. The
teoling roquirementa noedod to produce a given type
of belicopiar structure or part are reviewed.
Vendors sbouid be usad as additional information
souroes bacause os tire continuing developmont of
now maierials and sew processcs that alter the cont
and parformancs relationships betweon alternative
manufacturing proceseca.
17-2 METALWORKING
17-2.1 CENERAL
sod their applications to the consruction of heli-
coptars, as weil as some of the parameters governing
the choice of one prozta among many for the pro-
duction of a particular part. More compreñensive
diecupsions, as well as de,ailod devign data, are found
in othor documents zuch as AMCP 706-100, MIL-
HDBK-5, -693, -694, -897, -698, and -723. Also, Rcf.
I is an important soune for design data snd
mecalluggicai details.
a
casting, forging. cxirusicn, and sbert-metal forming.
The choice of the appropriate proccas depends upon
tbe sire and complaxity of the part, the nature and
qpane
joctai, the material from which it will be made, and
the roletive cous of fabrication. In goneral, large,
fairty complex pasts .— which require bigh rigidity,
are not subjoct to exconsi:e strees or impact, and for

AWCP 706-202
CHAPTER 17
PROCESSES
which somowhat greater weight can be tolcratod —
can be producod more economically by casting. A
toughness abo is required — and where high
strength, lighter weight, and better finish also are
strengtk, closo-tolerance parus Faving a continuous
contour — c.g., rails, tubing. and beams -- are
rojuirod. Large-area, thin-wall, decp-draw con-
figurations more often will be formed from shect
metal. In most cases, some machining. joining. and
finizhing will be involved. Only a dctailed analysis,
with a careful evaluation of the several process and
material costs, wili provide a sound basis for selecting
the matal-for:aing process for a particular part.
Forgings, castings, .extrucions, and shect-metal
parts will constitute the major portion of any
balicopter. The parts produced by these processes
range from the smaliest and most precise instrumen-
tation to the largest castings for gearbox housings.
The materials employed in these processes include
iron, steels, high-performance alloys, copper, mag-
neaium, aluminum, and titanium.
17-2.2 CASTING
Metal castings are formed by pouring molten metal
into a prepared cavity and allowing it to solidify. The
casting processcs most commor.iy usei in ihe manu-
facture of helicopter components are sand, in.
vestment, permanent mold, &nd centrifugal. Casting
is sclected over alternative methods primarily on the
basis of cost. The strength of castings generally is
lower than that of wrought alioys. However, the
structural propertics of castings are the same in all di-
roctions, and, therefore, in casc of symmetrical
loadings a casting may be the most efficient design.
Castinga should not be employed when the pre-
0. minzat loadings are not steady, i.c., when the loads
either are alternating or involve impact, because
cagtings do not bave the toughness of wrought alloys.
The possibility of the inclusion of sand or cther im-
purities, blow holcs, or other invisibic flaws results in
the noed for careful quality controi of thosc castings
used in critical applications. MIL-C-6021 provides
the standards for classification of castings on the
basis of the hazard following their failure, and aiso
17-1