hover power of morm than wo-ald bc hp steady 150
capable the required min operation sub- of 30 jiudged
sequent to bullet impact. However, the α 7.62-mm
failure probability or after receiving functional
high unless the beating η would quite be 12.7-mm U
large. were inordirsati'iy and components Sear
is shown schematically in Configurption Fig. 3
has arranged to defeat bee configuration This 16.
threats with far less weight penalty than 12.7-mm
of Con- would incuticd oversixing the elements be by
2. The overhung mouanting of Con- figuration
of Con- mounting straddle and the I figuration
2 have been couinbined in this redundant figuration
gear members are composite system. Both pinion and
cylindrical roller conventional two by supported
Emergen- one duplex ball bearing pair. bearings and
shoulders art. incorporated on the shafts cy thrust
race- adjacent to the integfal roller bearing inner
axial should provided be ways. Sufficient cekarance
and the inner racv thrust betweeni thec roller elements
nor- to preclude contact under shoulders or flanges
extreme cold conditions (including mal operation
I
ow'CONFIGURATION
BALL BEARINGS Δ'DU:LEX
-
Ω IT)
Rotor Tall Figure Α-1,6.

AMCu±706202
light alloy housings have contracted roei- when the
to the steel shafL4. upon functional tivt H*Α#ever,
failure or either duplex ball bearjug. emergency axial
theae of α thrust flanges. Wse by α locaition is provided
functional losit of total thiec-bearinS systcam .- wits π,
compromising the bearing without seriously any one
parameters of the gear meah, however, 4- operating
As result, α bearing alignment becomes more critical.
must be de- one bearing of thc three-boaring system
signed with greater ikiterna! than normal. -clearance
been The spiral bevel gear set shown in Fig. 4-16 has
thea shown in the geai set relativen slightly enlarged *o
to derreace vulnerability to or prior two configurations
the gear elements. hits directly 12.7-mrn ini
of and types . other configurations numerous While
same ob- be used to accomplish the bearings can
surviva- jectives, the logic used to providte inherent
bility unchanged. Simailar principitct should itrnains
goivern the design of the entire subsystem. Their dr-'ve
* as tae of coursc, beco~mes more involved npplication,
design increases. complexity of the gtearbox
or joints, hanger bearings shaft couplings, All
3 7
mrm Proof Gear'sox
-12.7
4-21