The vaiving unit is composod of α scat and α con-
trol cleme.ns. The scat may be Nat, spherical, or con-
ical in shape. with its configurstion determining the
sealing and opening characteristics of the relief valve
to α large degree. There are four commonly used con-
trol element doigns: ball, conical-poppet, V-poppet,
and piston.
The ball control element is used extensively in both
quick-opening and proportional relief valves because
of its simplicity, low manufacturing cost, and in-
herent self-aligning capability as it rescats. When
used in α quick-opaning relicf velve (safoty vaive), the
ball tends to chatter when discharging fluid. It is
limitod to smail valve sizes, and has α short life cyclc.
Like the ball control, the conical-poppat may be
used in both quick-opening and proportional relicf
valves. Conical-poppets Iend themsclves to larger
port sizos, but roquire closer tolerances on the scaling
surfaces of the poppet and soat. The control element
stem must be guided in order to obtain alignment
between thc poppet and scat. When the valvr. is open,
however, the inzide surface of the guide is cxposed to
thc fluid. If gae is discharged. cooling during expan-
will prevent the valve from closing. This type is
quicter in operation than the ball, due to frictional
damping induced by the guide.
The V-poppet element is used only in safety valves.
As soun az the valve starts to open, the fluid — by
changing momentum duc to the V-design — exerts α
greater force against the poppet, causing it to pop
open for full flow. The poppet uses only its inner cone
for α scaling surfacc. Like the conical plug. the pop-
pet stem is guided. Precision machining is required in
order to obtain accarate poppet-sest concentricity
and alignment.
Α piston sometimes is used in relief valves for
closed air systems. The piston offers no positive
scating surface to prevent Icakage, depeno.ng pri-
marily upon closc tokerances. Valve opening is pro-
portional to the overpressure. Pistons are uscd com-
monly as the socond stage in pilot-operated relief
valves, rather than in singlo-ziage valves.
9-3.2.6.3 Preamere-reduciag Valves
The most practical components for maintaining
socondary lower pressures in α pncumatic system are
two-way valves that sense downstream pressure in
order to close. There are two types, direct-acting and
pilot-operated.
Direct-acting valves are usually of sliding spool
design. Air flows from the high-pressure inict to the
low-pressure outlet. An adjustablc spring holds the
9-38

poppet or spool open, and roduced pressure auts to
closc θ valve. When the valve is clcred. α small
quantity of air bloods from the low-preasure side of
the va've through the spring chamber to the atmco-
phere, usually through α fixed or adjustablc orifice in
the spool or body. The bleodoff prevents dowastream
praaure from increasing above the valve stting
bocausc of spool lcakage when the valve cioses. The
spring chamber always is drainod to he atmosphare
in order to provent fuid proasurc from building up
and holding the valve open. Dimct-acting valvos
require α large envelope to provide space for the
spring and adyustmont. Also, spring ranges usually
arc narrow. As in reliof valvos, α small pilot sction
may be addod to control the main valve.
In α pilot-operatod. prossure-roducing valve, the
stream pressure at both ends. Α light spring holds the
vaive open. Α small pilot rolief vaive, usually buit
into the main valve budy. bleods air to the atmoe-
phere when roduced pressure reaches the pilot valve
spring sctting causing α prossure dmop acroas the
Spool or poppet. Prcusure differential iban mroves ii
toward its cloeod position against the force of the
light spring. The pilot valve relieves only enough fuid
to position the main vajve spool or poppat so that
flow through the main valve oquaks the flow roquire-
ments of the roducod-pressure circuit. If no flow is
requirod in the low-proseure circuit during α portion
of the cyclc, the main valve closas. High-proasure air
Icaking into the roducod-prousure soction of the valve
then returns to the atmosphare through the pilot
relief vaive. Pilot-operated, prousuro-reducing vaives
generaliy have α widor range of spring acjusiment
ihan do direci-acting vaives. and provide mnore
repctitive sccuracy. Howuver, contamination can
block flow to the pilot valve, causing the main valve
to fai to open properiy.
9-3.2.6.4 Preanre Regulators
The pressure compensator bypass flow rogulator
and moisture separator usually is α part of the air
compressor, and controls flow by diverting excoss
compressor output overbosrd. In α typicai exampke,
flow-pressure drop across α metering orifice is uaed to
shift = balancod spool against α control spring. This
spool movement is used to maintain α constant pres-
sure drop across the orifice, diverting or bypassing
excess supply flow. The pressure drop. which is deter-
mined by spool area and spring force, is relatively
low. •
9-3.2.6.5 Directional Control Valres
This term describes all multiple-pasage valves,