of coatrola or squipment not covared by thosc spaci-
fications, shall be based on α human factors en-
gincering analysis of crew taaks. Controls, switches,
and levers that roquire froquent actuation in flight
shauld de conveniently accessibic to the pilot'σ left
hand to minimize romoval of his right hand from the
cyclic pitch stick during normal flight.
13-2.1.1 Gaserel Vision Roqptiregmenis
MIL-STD-850 definas the roquiraments for air-
crew external vision. Figs. 13-1 and 13-2 illustrate the
Aitoff'σ equal area projection of the sphere showing
singio-pilot/tandem-pilot and side-by-side helicopter
vision plots.
timum vision include reflections, glare, distortion,
light tranasission, and angle of vision. Antireflective
costings shoula be applied as nocessary to minimize
refloctions and glare Erom instrument faces, wind-
screcn, and windows. Analyses of crew stetions under
all parts of expected mission profiks shouid bc con-
ducted to determinc thst transparent areas are ado-
quate for ail mission roquirements. Light trans-
mission irougin iransparasi srsas shali be masi-
mized, consistest with mission roquirements. Tinted
windows or other design features whict: reduo: light
transmiation are not accoptable because of their ad-
verse ef. et upon external night vision.
Maximum obstruction due to transparency frasne
mensders is spocified in MIL-STD-850. In heli-
copters ωãere there are broad expanses of trans-
parent areas that are used by more than one crew
member. vertical obstructions shouid be no more
than 2.5 in. wide projectod on α plaae normal to the
line of sight. This will permit binocular vision to, in
affect, sce around ihe obstruction. Such obstructions
shouia be focated to avoid critical vis'on areas and to
provide maximum distance betusen the crew
member'σ eye and the neareet obctruciions. Struc-
tural design and material selection guio.nce fr
transparent &reas is discussed in Chapter 11. When
necassary. α rear-vision mirror (see MIL-Μ-5755)
should be positioned inside the windshield to give
maximum visibility to the rear without obstructing
forward vision.
13-2.1.2 Contr
Requirements for size, shape, kocation, range and
dirertion of motion, and force-versus-dimplacement
charscteristics for belicopter controls are dcfined in
the following documents: MIL-STD-250. MIL-STD-
1333, MIL-STD-1472, MIL-Γ-53087, MS 87017. and
AFSC DH 1-3.
13-2

trols abould be shaped and Jocated so thai an aircrut
mamber reasonably familiar witd thvir arrangement
is ablo to operate thom without visuai refarecce .- tse
so-callod "blind position reaction".
All controls of like fuaction should be groupod to-
gether, and normal operatiarg and anergoncy con-
trois should bave priority ot pcsition.
Conformity to cstablished customn or standards
must be carefully roviewed in cusos wbare uniquc mis-
sion requirements or belicoptor design posaibilitias
preoent an opportunity for à more soarly optimum
cockpit arrangement through deviation from stan-
dards. Standards, in goperal, roprwent minizum ro-
quirements and the result af experience, but are not
intendod to obstruct pregrecs nor to stifle initiative.
However, the possibility of improvement through
deviation frorn standard sbould be subjectod to
thorough analysis before approval is requestod, and
the designer should make full uae of human factors
enginoeriag tockniqurs in order to totermine the
value of any deviation from standard practice.
Human factors cnginoaring priaciplee siso shall be
used to detormine the locations of any controls not
reguiared by current stoadants.
Control pancls, control knobs, handies, or levess
other ihan emergency controls and integrally illumi-
natod controls should be black to minimize ro-
floctions. Contro! panole shall be designod in sc-
cordance with MIL-C-8α774. Ail emergency
switches, buttons, haadiea, kaobs, and levers whic)
require immodia:σ corroctive action by the opore:or
in the evont of an emargoncy should be identifiec with
altarnate orango-yollow and btack stripa in sc-
cordance with MIL-Μ-18012.
The odges of adiacent circular pondotont kaobe
should be at lsast 1 in. apart. Knob dismears wually
are determined by torque and satting requireaents.
Knobs of lass than 0.Σ-in. diamcter should be uced
for low torque application only. Knobs with dia-
meters of more than 0.5 in. may saxvbat reduce
chances of erzor, but incresse the demand for control
panel arca.
13-2.1.2.1 Pitch Controls
Separate collective and cyclic pitch controbs should
be provided for pilot and copilot. The characteriatics
of force vs displacement for these controis shall be in
accordance with par. 6-3.6, AMCP 706-201. An 8#-
justable friction device or irrevoraible nechnaice
should be incorporatod in the pilot'σ collective pitch
control.
Subsystem functions controlled from the cy bic
Aick shal/ bc in accordance with NS 87Δ17 and MIL-
Γ-58087. Among the functions to be coatrolled from