• __
I
provide to masked access components. Consideration
should be given to the removal problems associated
with combat operations. The design of armor
take maximum advantage of the modular concept
with respect to size and contour.
single piece of The maximum weight of α
should not exceed 80 lb. Where the working
restricted by existing structure and/or equipment,
weight should be reduced accordingly.
Transparent armor should be readily
and cleanable. Removal should be possible
disturbing the fire-control system.
Each component of the armor system
requires three or more hours for removal should
considered as structural or integral. Such
should be evaluated as pan of the helicopter struc-
ture with respect to load-transmission characteristics
and fatigue life.
14-3.3.4 Flying Qalltis
The removal of armor, partial or total, should
adversely affect the flying qualities of the
The use of ballast should be avoided.
Σ14-3.3.5 λ,-uebgllmz ι
Immobilization, as related to armor, is defined
rendering any moving part of α structure immovable
following ballistic attack. The three most
types of immobilization are burring. keying,
deformation.
Tho edges of pieces of armor may become
or tom as α result of projectile impacts. When two
mor surface. are very close together their torn
may come in contact with one another. The
burring often causes immobilization, because
Σ. ε,.,.vges prent .. ,,ρ rovnm..._
occurs when α projectile or frmgment
wedged between two surf..ces, or when α
penetrates one surfAce and partially penetrates
other surface so to lock or "pin" the two as
parts together. Deformation results when
or push it out of shape, swell the metal impacts
jamming moving surfaces together or
normal operations. preventing
Protection cgainst, or insensitiveness to,
types of immobilization always must be considered
aesning moving parts. In somecases, the use
deflector strips jectile prevmts immobilization.
large clearance between moving parts also offers
__.
tection against immobilization.
3 cashould Ar
14-3.3Α6 Armor Materil Attadtmst/istallafa
I-.33η~λ Moutnatg of Plae Armor
sWall Α-mor plate be mounted on strong,
ANN&9

, ... • 0_"_0
AMCP MM620
structural members or on energy attenuating
are nmmberu that designed to reduce the peek impact
should loads θ:.ieby reducing the structural requirements
and hence the weight of local airframe stuct-ure. Do-
flection of the armor be considered in deter- she/ι
Wherever possible, ,woun- mining space allowances. armor
area is tings should be on the rear side of the armor plate
the (remote from the anticipated direction of attack).
This arrangement, which is advantagous fr~μ the
replaceable strength viewpoint, also prevents damage to the
without mountings gunfire. from
Refer to Figs. 19 and 20, Ref. for armor attach- 5,
which ment methods.
be The structure and brackets for armor support
armor should exhibit sufficient strength to withstand the
normal loads of flight, gust, blast, and landing, as
well as crash.noads. The strength of hinges, locks, and
fasteners on doors and/or removable inspection pan-
cis should be maintained at the design level. The
added weight of the armor should not strech springs,
not damage hinges, or warp doors or pan& to which ar-
helicopter. mor is attached. The attachments should retain suffi-
ci-nt strength after the limit load imposed by ballts-
tc impact to withstand flight loads without breaking
loose or incurring zdditional deformation that would
as cause interference with any critical component. The
bracketry may be designed to yield under limit load.
common When armor such as hard-faced steel must be
and oriented in α particular manner, attachments should
be positioned to preclude improper installation. The
cracked sizing of fasteners is determined most conveniently by
ar- gunfire tests.
edges When practicable, the armnor attachments should
rsultant be desigred to take the impact loads in compruson
the or shear, but not in tension.
attached _rek Kviq Armor should be at three or more points
becomes having sufficient strength to support the armor and
projectile to withstand normal operational loads in the event
the one attachment point is shot away.
movable The standoff space provided by the armor attach.
projectile ments should be such that any deformation and/or
not cause in- and armor will of bracketry thus deflection
otherwise terference with the functioning of the armor-critical
component.
these
in 14-3.3Α η"tintie. Design
cf pro- The installation of armor not preclude the shdil
Α rapid egress of the crew in emergency situations.
pro- Motalk armor should ha•v no discontinuities or
rough edges that muight up strcm raisers. All edge. et
be broksn or deburred order to prevent !ν
delayed cracking.
Ceramik composite armor should not be for used
rigid primary airvraft structure.