ip mction ciearacierietics are importan! to
-sead 3υ rjacos aq.λ 'agg duundi pee soasd
bevet in selation to the suction lisco. loes end
tacxperatare cheractorintics
sbead Su such tioat tbc praezp section does mot cavitae
Sas going to full stroke froms copensaisd (uo-
&iow) stroke. Fig. 9-32 shews ckeracieristic systam
лон
tyrucel eparating tssparatures and suction line
besgi is α seiccted suction line Gameter and
mgaze ton.
Par: putentior chavatsristics and their compati-
extramoh: iaportuan fox stigfociory systen and beli-
coptsr pefe:maance. Puup systesn compe-tibility lesis
muat be crsducted σ carty as powsible ι=: the hard-
ware ceve'spmesst cycie. Aypondiz lines shalt nor be
resad cloes to tive pamnp witloont sxtrame care, bacauec
tine pump paslestiou ch racterì tic σ an cxcitiag fre-
quare; car árive the appeada υ line at its reasonating
fivqrancy. Tle renth is pulsatices &σ o Jer of magui-
τ'ε dici* iGs Fxe) than tka un'si pukatia keved
-qad (red-σ6 . : )
nvo aee cor ".atsd iao mecfarikzl vibrutios that
ardoe sren. Fvel high eonai: wo came fatizue
ik:= 3ν ic minutes.
fr dl gengn-'ouisatio? kvz: is unacceptable, there
are v. wiscinaiive fixe. Line lengths may be
modifig in thc resossting area sc as to move the
resonating speed poiat out of the wsi*ig pxed range of
the pump since ressnence can occur betweer ic
Famp and an inline suppnssor. There are sevural
types of suppressors: the Helmoholtz resonatur is
RESERVOIS PREXSURE, DaI ADEQUATE ALUID (REOLIPE) ACCELERATION FOR Α TYPICAL PUMP) 0
al
0 2 4 6 σ 10 12 14 16
SUCTION LINE LENGTH, ft
Figure 9-32. Suction Liae Lawgtà — Reuveir
Prsacore Characteriatica

duacribod in par. Σ-4.5, AMCP 706-201. and = by-
draulic patcation supprosor is shown is Fig. 9-33.
-Csegie sogesgnd Joj peen sq es oequ suoroprunaoy
stion. Sancêλ volumes witih α relativeiy high precharge
oi Suçuado axe1) sovupadug noq pur (ed +002)
syatum) are roquirod in order to aticin ths necessery
Nigh- frequency response characteriatics.
δ
19692. covering variable -delivery pump require-
monts. MiL-Π-7α58 covers fixed-displacement unit
roquiremenis.
9-2.7.3 Acmm
Accumulators &re used for energy atorage and/or
for pressure transient and puksation aticnuation.
Thay may be of she piston, bladder, or diaphragm-in-
gas-flvid-separation type. Α variation of the piston
type is the sclf-dicplacing varicty. which avoid: any
adverse impact upon the reservoir as α result of size
or transient high-velocity motion.
Sexl, bladder, and diaphragin Icakage, and its cos-
trol, üre the basic accumulator problems. The piston
seal can be complemeated with : piston facs seal that
provices redundancy when the systern is not
opcrating.
Another alternative for minimizing icakage of gas
into the hydrau'ic systum is use of redundant piston
seals, with α ve.nt between them giving access to the
atmos, mhere; izis may require α tail rod and an extra
sul. The evolution of high-response pumps, and the
resuitent elir.ination of accumulators, is α desirable
wy of rolvnig accumulator problems. The only basic
arca then requiring accumulators will be θ enginc-
siarting sysiem.
τ'mulator sizing and precharge are α function
of θ; ¿emperature rsnge through which the accumu-
laior niuai be csed. The Nuid volume available at the
mini:na*ι pressure and the minimum operating tem-
periuu:ι: obviousiy myst mcet the subsystem energy
requirenents. Accuniuistors for tactical helicopters
shol be designed to retain their integrity when
cxpusedo gunfire.
η4IL-Α-:498 and MiL.-Α-8897 cover thc detail ac-
cum;la:or requirements. and par. 9-4.4.3, AMCP
706 α . contains α di:cussion of accumulator tech-
:iq :.
....
Figue 3-33. Hydraudic Puksation Soppreowor
..6-19