11-0 LST OF SYMROLS
4 - limit cargo acceleration, number of γ'σ, di-
monsionioes
- acceloration due to gravity, 32.2 ft/sc
ν - peak accoleration, numbes of γ'σ, dimen-
* aionloes
- aoceleration ratio, aL/H, dimensionloss
- longitudinal acceleration, number of γ'σ,
dimersionloes
Metan limit flight load factor, dimensionloss timo for accoleration to reach limit cargo
acceloration, sec
time to ronch prak acccleration, soc
velocity et time iL, Α/soc
- initial velocity, fi/soc
ω ν width of the cargo floor, st
= controlled defsction, in.
11-1 INTRODUCTION
Structural considerations for helicopter major
conpotont design were discussed in Chapter 1. This
chaptor is concerned with thc detail structural design
of the airframe oniy; ι.ε., fusclage, tail boom, stabi-
lizers, fins, and auxiliary lifling wings. Socondary
stucture, such as doors, cowlings, and fairings, is in-
ciuded. Detail design of transparent areas also is dix-
Clsaud.
The basic helicopter configuration is chosen and
the external loads are deveiopod during the pre-
liminary design of the helicopter. Fundamental air-
frame decisions, such as whether to use morocoque
or somimouocoque construction, also are made du-
ring preliminary deaign. The task in detail design is to
confirma that the airframe structure designed in pre-
liminary dksign mects the mission performance and
curvivability requiremnents, and that it can be de-
woloped and produced within the budget cost cs-
tablisbod for it.
The bascs for detail design are the helicopter detail
sPocifications, MIL-Σ-8698 and MIL-Α-8860 through
-8871, and the design criteria defined by or deveioped
from thase documents.
ternative typcs of local structure by application of
curtain trado-off criteria. Material propertics, method
of fabrication, weight, and strength limitations are all
important considerations in the deaign confirmation.
The determination of how α particular portion of the

AMCP 706-202
CHAPTEP 11
AIRFRAME STRUCTURAL DESIGN
airframe is to be fabricatod — ι.ε., by wolding.
forging. stoel matal buildup (riveted or bondod), or
from composite materials -- is the principal docision
to be made in detail design. The trade-off criteria to
be usod during the investigation of fabrication
tochniques include weight, surface finish, stiffness
and ruggodncss, fatigue sausitivit;, cost, and proper-
ties of materials.
11.2 DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS
11-2.1 WEIGHT
:.? the beginning of the detail design effort, the
weight group provides the weight budget to θ
tistical analyscs and estimates of the prelimitary de-
sign. Α stato-of-thc-art design, therefore, normally
would meet the weight allowance, while advancod
design techniques and new materials should produce
α structure weighing iess than the aiioimeni. incor-
poration of rew design techniques in order to save
weight must be considered in conjunction with the
other requirements since, for instance, advanced
decigns may increasc the airframe coat. In any casc, α
strict accounting of weight with respect to the budget
must be maintained throughout detail design.
11-2.2 SURFACE SMOOTHNESS
Surface smoothness is &ncther structural quality
that affocts aircraft performance. Criterin that limit
the use of protruding fasteners, stipulate ι irod areas,
and dictate external contours are provided oy the
teria are appliod Jepends upor the impact upon
manufacturing cost. It may be possible to trade off
the additional costs of mecting these criteria through
simplification (therefore, lower costs) of the structure
itaalf.
Α curved surface often will be more costly, but it
will be stiffer, more rugged, lighter, and less fatigue-
sensitive than the simpler alternative. Limiting flush
fasteners to the forward 25% of the airframe aero-
dynamic length may be an acceptable compromise
that will yield the required drag reduction.
11-2.3 STIFFNESS AND RUGGEDNESS
Airframe compcnents must have adequate stiff-
naas to meet σ'atod vibration criteria. There must be.
adequate separation between the natural frequencies
of prime modes ens the exciting frequencies. This
froquency separation will reduce the internal stresses
11-1 ***