3. a
6ms of tbe 2.75-in. FF
Latture fro
st the
: 14-2.3.2 Laanch Tube Mie
I.ancher tabre cape
firing of ths 2.75-in. FFA.R bave been constructed of
abuprianm, rAaindgns stsel,
хї bees raet.arial. Expedabir aated Fibrzgiag, and phanclio-imgregnate
r
tesbes laz ve been comctructad of alurninua, 8
piuctic-impregnatesi or conlod
Asy ssaterials that have been fully tasted and fcund
ndn
lrunch tubes, providod due sccount is taken of
availability. comt, and comparibility with other im-
staliation requiromonts.
14-2.3.3 L.aumcher Mowsting
Forward-firing launchers sbould be mounted with
the launch tubes at the optimum sangk for highest
syuam accuracy for tactics to be employed. The cor-
rasponding aircraft pitch angle aho should be
„, evaluated for ono-half fuel load and maximum am-
munition load at the mean combat altitude. Provi-
sion for sdijustment of the launcher ekvation may be
required so as to account for variations in the flight
attitude of the helicopter between level and diving
flight. Adequate strustural clearance shall be pro-
vided to prevent interference of the rocket (including
fins) with any part of the helicopter (including adja-
cent stores) during rocket iaunch. A clearance cone of
7 deg half angle measured from the rocket longiru-
dinal centerlire of the exit port is ats example.
14-z.3.4 Number of Rockets
The applicable helicopter system specification will
define the number of rockets to be carried and the se-
quence in which they are fued. Lateral spacing of
successively-irod rockets should be selected to pre-
vent che mutual interferonce effects of rocket blasts,
fin opening. and jostling of adjacent rockets fired
from closely spaced tubes. Rockets usually can be
ripplo fired with relatively abort firing intervals if
succeesive rounds are fired fromn tubez with adcquatc

143.35
boads. T
craah Jonds without faburc (Baf. 1).
ad Eabric- 142.3.6
Isaanciaing Tie rocket isetalletion : include a ground aafo-
si, and ty cutout cwitch ia order to peavent srtal rociat
firiog during ground operations. The friag circuit
landing skid comsprsasion under thc belicopter empty
re dgeso iqaan
ms punoss iqi Aq punon
A manualiy-operated override swvitci obai be pro-
ded to permit ground checkout of the firing circuit.
1 ve grounding path for cach rocket ignitice circuit
actual rocket firing contact. Grounding shal! con-
tinue until the rockets are loadod or unil the firing
circuit is energizsd. The firing circuitry sho must
contain provisions for preventing inadvertent rocket
metor ignition due to radio frequency energy.
14-2.3.7 Restraiading Latches
Rockei wili be rosuainod poalivaly in coch
launching tube by means of an sppropriste mecha-
nism. The restraining mechaniam must engage auto-
matically when the rocket is loaded into the launcher,
and must remain engaged if the rocket is rolatod
within the lauacher during the loading procedurcs.
and wil! rectrain the rocket from forward movement
with a force equivalent to that imposed by longitu-
dinal crash load factors. If a blast-operatod detent is
used, the mechanisin will prevent both fore and aft
movement of the nonbureing rocket, snd will coniain
a means for manual releasc of the individuai rocket
latclies in order to permit rapid ioading azd removal
of unfired rockets.
14-2.3.8 Firiag Coutacts
The c'ectrical contacts wil be designod to provide a
low-resistance path for the eoctrical curreut fow
:4-9