CP7O05)201
direct are actuation instrument of types The two
indicating. and remote
INTALLTIONof 10.71
cversthegenralrequremntsfor MIL--597
In- instruments and aircraft of installation the
ouning vbraion te oweer struentpanes,
ouning vbraion te oweer struentpanes.
spezifications are inappropriate for most helicopter
installations and generally aye waived for the rigid
mounting described in par. 10-7.2.
VIBRATION 16-712
that requires instruments of installation The
comn- the of vibration the to given be attention special
has instr.,ment each Because panel. instrument plete
in its forth set as vibration requirements of set its own
ap- the review must designer the specification,
instru- each for specification procurement plicable
frequency maximum the determine must ment. He
stelec must permissible, and amplitude double and
regard. this in is compatible that instruments of set
vibration the establishing of method the Ideally,
based be should helicopter a new for criteria test and
the defines that analysis vibration Ithorough upont
WAL- to Reference vibration conditions. anticipated
analysis, in this aissist vwill STD410
the designs, new for specifically and general, in
panel instrument the make to is procedure normal
that resonatices any to avoid order in as possible rigid
frequencies. fundamental rotor by excited be may
requirements vibrationi the with conflicts (This
vi- the Should waived.) is usually which MIL-l-3997,
instrument individual an of charsacri~stics bration
the by provided environment the with incompatible
the in used be may isolatorr vibration panel, rigid
instrumentr. the ctitical of mounting
10-10

MAINTENANCE AND ACCESSI1BILITY 10-7.3
&WaI mounted be panel-mounted initruments All
the front against ring mounting lugs or casw the with
wnay installed be the instrument so that panel the
shall instrument be Each front. the removed from and
coraducting or wiring electrical enough with installed
of out be pulled to the instrument permit to tubing
necessary, Whý-re its connections. expose to the panel
suitable means should be provided to prevet fouling
objectional interference of slack wiring or tubing or
when the instrument is installed in the panel. Each
to pmo as so identified well be should connection
in- instrument another to up hooked being its dlude
advertently.
REFERENCES
Factors Humaan McCormick, J. I1. E. a Enghwf.ed.
1970. McGraw-Hill, NY.
Lund, and Chaphis, Cook, 2. Morgan, Humanw
Design. Equipment to Guide Engineering
NY, McGraw-Hill, 1962.
ii.'W, Bus and Conway, Hespy, Semple, AawdysLf 3.
Flight !EJectronic for Data Factors of Human
AFFDL- Report Technical Systems. Display
Laborn- Air Force Flight Dynamics TR740-174. as
OH Bane, Force Air Wright-Patterson tory,
1971. April 45433,
W. Godfrey, G. 4. of Illumination of Display Principles
Stations. Crew Aerospace Vehice for Techniques
19122, Box 0. P. Institute, Aerospace Lighting be
439'19. OH Columbus
Socie- Engineering fIluminatin-P Ae of 3. Handbook
1966. NY. ty.