.ι:
location of the CG (Ref. 8). Ths solution to thie un-
stable situation is to raiar the suepension point to α
Socatice ae closs as possible tc the CG of the ompty
rg ν γ
arranging tbe structure α8 cbowe in Fig. 13-8(Β).
For mout cason, incladieg cxiscing belicoptess, it is
more fossible to cruate α virtual suepansion point by
anchoring the cargo book or pondant upon α linkage
(Fig. 13-Σ(C)) or & trolley runring on α curved track,
which allows tbe paudant to move as though it werc
pivoting about α point poar the CG (Fig. 13-Σ(Δ}).
The major difficulties with singlo-point suspen-
vide oaly simple pesdular stebility io the load, and
canaot provide any restraizt or stability in yaw or
pisch. An auxiliary line connocting tbe load to the
bowover, tihis sacond line caanot be used because it
wouid comprise the tmargency release capability and
an ν su squnucun den Kqpa
bolicopter (Ref. 9). Thus, the oaly moans of pro-
viding sability to α singlo-point loed is by using the
awrodynanic foroes generaied by forvard fight. Α
drogne parachuts attachad to the trailing end of =
meat to kaep sn otlaar wiae unstasbie loed aiigned with
tike direction of fight. However, the drogue Icocs its
efbact ai wery low speedn sad in hovering fight, where
forces on oertain types oif joads.
ra coguadens jupod-spDuga jo sds suo ε an
osfers α lisited amouat of incidontel yaw restraint. If
α book is rigidiy mounted to the sirframe at the suas-
peauision point, and if tbe loed is suapended by α short
multilog sling with α ring at its apex, the ring inter-
Tupua) o α0uy aaou οι 00 sp α se
Loed yawing momeris tend to wind up the sling.
reuoquodosd anhos : qua dnpera ey paa
to yaw angle. The bock and its spporting saruct ure
ruust he adoquats te carry this sling windup torque.
.se Symmetriocl high-denaicy load: cea be ailowed to
rotate if sach rotadion hes only ε minor offect on beli-
Joj apn rnn gng sggb pgg saoc
thais rotat.tsa; & swivet muast bs momntad betwean tihe
bouis and to protuct ths udant from
2
Tbe two-γ providae thu yaw and
sion lacks.
momait N of σ trvO-
xection of cabic lengtin, is
N 57.3 Λ ,ν-τ/des

AMCF 7O6-222
where
ω - weight of exteraal losd. Ib
* - distance betweer suspacaion attach points.
Λ - iongth of suspension, ft
It can be soen that shorier suspension cablas
generate α greater rostoring moment and reault in α
inore stable loed and bighar allowable airepeods.
ν o axs q pod seos π -0αι jo skt wαn ap kq popo σ muεou
point susponsions, with the distance betwaen the heli-
copter attachnent poiats detormining wibetber the
load pitches up, remains lovel, or pitcbas down as
sorcdynamic dreg swinge it af during fight. To
avoid having α low-dennity load "fly" up into the
bolicopter due to α drag-inducod pichup. it is do-
sirable to have the loai astachment points spaced
farthar apart than the bclicopter attachmeat points.
Latarally disposod two-point suegensions do not
provide any pitch rostraiat, but Go offer sonre roll
restraint as woll as yaw restraining torque.
Four-pxint suspensions provide sianultanoous re-
siraint in pitch and roll, and provide α slightly more
effective yaw, restoring moment N, as zxpreaed by
Eq. 13-2 (Ref. 10).
N 57.3 Λ $$(ξ^ +ρ^2$ ν-1bjda (13-2)
whore
χ - longitudinal distance between able sttach
points, Ai
υ - Jatoral distence betwoen cable atvach
points, At
Α four-point suspension is compatible with most
vehicular and containeritod loads, and permits
relatively high-spood flight with such Jonds sluag
-Anq wormdns 1o1-mog au 'δ8ugeny un on sp
out, bowever, has α number of inharent problan
areus, some of which are unique and somc of which
-gadsrs πçod-oy aqs Aq ulap snq ε os paeqs aur
sion.
Emorgenc: relcase of multipoint susponsions ro-
quires simultancous jettison of ail cables with α kigh
dagree of alizbility. If hoists are iucorporatd at the
eeeen
chronitod. Tbe presence of two or more attachmont
points, while providing stability to the cargo, pro-
. vides α lond path through wiich potentinlly wacon-
trcädable moments could be appiiad so tine helicupier.
Honking up mulipoint susppensions to α bovering
-uap coçmsodo au gnvgp aq ues rendoogpy
-Jred ε dn Sugpr; po Agiqrod aq jo semepoq mroad
(13-1) peo nedoorarg hugpues pue poor poaoqen Agur
of concrol. Τ'he problem of indoterminate structural
1217