I. Reduction in augmentation system authority
2. Increase in inherent airframe stability
3. Multichannel redundant systems.
Selection from among these methods during
design process is done after due consideration of
other flight control system requirements such as
formance (especially the authority needed to
gust and maneuvering requirements), reliability,
maintainability, and cost.
Failure-effect studies, which note the consequence
of each component failure, should conducted be in
organized manner. These must identify:
I. Any failure that cannot be tolerated, such as
oscillation due to loss of feedback
2. Any compromise in control margin
3. Failure causing multiaxis response too difficult
for the pilot to control
4. Ability of the pilot to switch out failures
5. Consequence of subsequent failures.
As an example of Item 5, after the first failure
dual system, the remaining system must niect
failure criteria or the flight envelope must be
stricted so as to meet the failure requirements.
Pilot-in-the-loop simulation is a valuable tool
.......
impact upon detail system design.
AUGMENTATION STABILITY 6-3
SYSTEMS
GESAS's.
contains Par. iz-fercnccs 6-2 numerous to stability
augmentation systems (SAS). Owing to the
herently poor stability of a helicopter rotor,
factory flying qualities have been achieved in
cases by altering the inherent characteristics
ficially Such techniques are celled mechanical
bility augmentation.
The pilot workload associated with early
copters was very heavy. The handling qualities
requitiments of MIL-I1-8501 have been developed
not only to reduce this workload, but also to
crease the mission capability of the helicopter. The
result, however, is that it is virtually impossible
satisfy thrse requirements without modifying the
herent characteristics of the helicopter with a
sophisticated SAS.
6-3.1.1 Bell Stablllzr Bar
SAS Perhaps the earliest mechanical is the
stabilizer bar. A bar with weights on the ends
mounted pivotally upon the rotor shaft at
angles to the two-bladed, teetering rotor (Fig.
connected Mixing levers are to the bar, and through

706-202 AMCP
pushrods, to both the swashplate and the blade pitch
blades is the sum of arms. Cyclic pitch input to the
pilot control input and stabilizer bar teetering mo-
connected the tion. Viscous dampers, from the stabilizer
the bar to the rotor shaft, control the rate at which the
per plane of rotation of the bar and rotor follows or lags
roter meet the tilt of the shaft. This lag in tilting stabilizes
or damps the helicopter pitch and roll motion. Ad-
ditional data may be obtained from Ref. 7, and pars.
6-2.4.3.2 and 6-4.2.1 of AMCP 706-201.
an
6-3.1.2 Hiller Servo Rotor
an Another early mechanical SAS is the Hiller servo
rotor. The two-bladed, universally mounted, under-
slung rotor has a gyro bar fastened to the hub at right
angles to the blades. On each end of the gyro bar is a
short paddle blade with airfoil cross section, whose
pitch is controlled cyclically by the swashplate. Cyclic
pitch imparted to the servo rotor tilts its plane of
in a rotation, resulting in a cyclic pitch input to the main
the rotor blades. Stabilization results from the lag in the
response re- of' the servo rotor to tilting of the rotor
shaft, and the consequent pitch and roll damping due
for to the lagged response of the main rotor. Additional
ur ubtainud u and zci. a in pars. 6-2.4.3. U4* 111n1y
and 6-4.2.1 of AMCP 706-201.
Mechanical 6-3.1.3 Gyro
Refs. II 9, 10, and discuss two applications of
intermediate-size (10-15 Ib) gyros in mechianic&l
The first, produced by Cessna, is a rete gyro
that is connected mechanically in series with the in-
in- put from the pilot control stick to the control boost
satis- actuator. This system acts primarily to damp roll
many motions. The second, the "Dynagyro" by Dyna-
arti- sciences, is a two-axis, hydraulically driven unit with
sta- rotating damping arranged sn as to align the gyro
wheel slowly with its mounting reference in the fuse-
heli- lage. Outputs of the gyro, i.e., its pitch and roll dis-
placements relative to its mounting, are fed into hy-
draulic boost actuators that are connected in series
the in- with pilot's cyclic pitch boost actuators in the re-
spective directions. in This design is similar principle
to to the Bell stabilizing bar, except that blade pitching
in. moments are prevented from feeding back into the
rather gyro. The hicludes Dynasciences a SAS also
hydraulically driven rate gyro mechanically coupild
into the hydraulic boost actuator that controls tail
collective rotor pitch. This provides yaw damping.
either Bell No electrical power is required in system.
is Ref. 12 describes an all-mtchanical yaw rate gyro
right for single-rotor gyro, hel.copters. The located at and
5-7). driven by the tail rotor, tilts about a longitudinal axis
in response to a yawing rate of the helicopter, and
6-9