A•P 706-202
modes operating of the rotor. hcli.-opter and compound; and each to discuu speed with the Thus, under
the number of degrees of freedom is reduced, fixed and rotating system divergence and flutter, or
simplifying the equations of motion However, the static and oscillatory aeromochanical instabilities.
analyses of the mechanical instability ranges and J-K
L-M in Fig. 5-16 are identical to the two-bladed case 5-4.4.2.1 Helicopter
and must be treated with the same considerations.
5-4..2.11 Ixcd System
5-4.4 FLUTTER Historically, relatively 1i'tle attention has been ASSESSMENT
heli- for flutter and divergence fixed-system to given di- arc instability rotor potential of types other The
requirements design end operational as other coptcrs, that follows and flutter. The discussion vergencc
and operating life, fatigue static strength, as such 5, in Chapter given review the analytical supplements
and flutter. precluded divergence speed havc AMCP 706-201.
When the developing acrodynamic force simply
overpower the elastic constraints and the motion 5-4.4.2.1.2 Rotating System
exceeds some presdlected bounds, i.e., goes unstable, A number of rotor acromechanical instability
divergence has been reached. Flutter usually involves problems were encountered in the period before 1960.
change in and coalhacence of two or more system Solutions usually were worked out by trial and error 2
natural frequencies because of dynamic or aerody- long before they were understood mathematically.
nemic effects, and the coupling of oscillatory motion Included were problems such as weaving, pitch-flap.
of the lifting surface with the airstream in such a way pitch-lag, and pitch-conc instabilities, and stall and
as to derive energy irom the airtream to increase the binary flutter. Of thesc only o11c of recent occurrClece
motion. is stall flutter, which has been actively restarched
The first formulation of the flutter problem was (Refts. 30 &iid 31). This work has provided an under-
published in 1934 and subsequently republished as standing of the problem and the ability to predict the
26. reasonable accuracy. houndary Rcf.a. iuwitr stall with
Each potential fluster problem is related to modal The basic dexign changes that sol~ed most of these
couplings that are configuration-oricnted. and the problems were overbalanced blades, torsionally stiff
number of such couplings is very large. Furtier, in H-lades, and, with the advent of hydraulic boost, in-
each specific configuration, the stability equations in- creased control-system stiffness.
volve a large numbcr of parameters whose meaning During the design of conveuit.onal rotors, the cur-
and measure are only made clear by a rather precise rent practice is to forego elaborate calculations. The
analytical diagram or model. Thus, a specific, rather only mandatory check for main rotors is that the
than gen-ral, method has evolved. No method has yet chordwise location of the effective CG of the blade be
bearn devised for writing mcaningful specifications forward of chord, and preferably forward of 24% 25%
and simple instructions for designers for the preven- chore- For unconventional designs, Serious con-
tior' or avoidance of these instabilities. Notable sidertion should given to detailed quantitative be
attempts toward simpiification are given in Ref. 27 analysis. The list of known problems should be
for fixed-wing aircraft and Ref. 28 for helicopters, checked to see if an analytical solution is available,
and a recent attempt at ordering and classifying is preferably a method that has been checked against
given in Ref. 29. experimental results.
5:-4.4.1 Carrels Crlittr 5-4,4f2.2 Compound
static and oscilla- list of "7he most comprehensive
System Fixtcd 54-4..2.2.1 for hell- to date compiled instabilities tory acroclastic
is presented in Ref. Several specific con- In the development of compound helicopters, con- 29. coptem
•3-figuration-oriented problems are named, and' for- sidcrable a:tention has been given to divergenmc and
the speed range beyonw due to the extension of and oscillato- flutter for determining static mulas are given
prvc- helicopters. Conventional to that of conventional list could be extended stability boundaries. This ry
as those outlined in Chapter AMC-- specification dealing with tices, such form the basis for a usable 5.
case, signim.!- one known In adequate. are 706-201, to helicopters. basic phenomena the aeroelastic
cant buffeting of the vertical fin was encountered due
Cosu.derations Dedpa to the impingement of disturbed air from the hub and 54.41
the up by cleaning was solved The problem pylon. it is convenient considerations, design To discuss
"to flow. as configurations aircraft the applicable classify
5-23