)AMCP7W
in conjunc- strength and trajectory bladc tip vortex is approedmately an airfoil cross ection of stiffness
square proportional to the of its area for Sivrn type tion with the objectives of obtaining high hover a a
"of a low value of cruise power can be Figure of Merit and constru-taon. Thus, thick airfoil a cell
and the and thickness, Blade twist, chord, reiuired. stiffness. There- higher torsional with manufactured *
the blade, properties of physical corresponding the thick section series with which fore, for the airfoil
due to the responses to minimize should be chosen the tor- sudden stall, due to a sharp impulse receives
in hysteresis effects, action and aerodynamic vortex be for given a may blade sional response of the * leks
These types of ans- to resonant conditions. than when a thin addition of cointrol jystan stiffn%4 amount
include the effects on the blade of the en- is used. lyses should section
Dynamic pitch te.its of various airfoils have shown tire control system, as well as possible shrft, or pylon
tor- first the at effects stall blade Dynamic bending. coeffi- lift maximum in the the increase that clearly
and at the once-per-rev and decreases as sional natural frequency cient is large for low Mach numbers
of the blade should be included retreating rotational frequency number is increased. Thus, as the Mach
analysis. angle of in the blade response pitch, it can ivacn a greater blade increases
attack before stall occurs than that predicted by two-
CONSTRUCTrION BLADE 54.2 increase this of amount The airfoil tests. dimensional
is dependent upon the airfo'l geometry, particularly Rotor blade structures may be broken down into
the amount and location of camber and the leading three major elements: the spar, the aft section
edge radius. The lift coefficient that corresponds to (sometimes referred to as the fairing), and the root
the drag divergence angle of attack obtained from end retention. Secondary elements are tip closures
tuning weights. While and hardware. trim tabs. and tests, however, remains an adequate two-dimeasional
indicator for oscillating drag divergence. The more wooden rotor blades still are in use and probably will
*• gradual increase in pitching moment due to the be used to a limited extent for many yeaus, they are
are not addressed in couid result in Itrgc losses of lift if these torsionally tcr development and, therefore,
softer blades untwist sufficiently to precipitate a loss this handbook.
o! lift. Sharp increases in torsional loads then occur
Spar 56.2.1 as leading-edge net effect the same can result in and
separation of thick airfoils. It has been foomd from The major load-carrying member of any rotor
several experimental sources that cambered airfoils blade is the main qpr, whether it be designed for
with a slightly increased leading-edge radius possess structure only or also as a part of the aerodynamic
superior pitching moment delaying characteristics. A shape of the blade. It may he of monolithic construc-
large leading .edge radius also helps keep the blade tion or may be assembled from two or more compo-
section iorward, which delays the onset of both nents. The predominant types of spars CG are described
pitching moment stall and classicdl bending-torsion in subsequent paragraphs.
and stall flutter. i-or airfoils with sharp leading edges
and with their maximum thickness further aft, the 54.2.1.1 Hollow Ex•taloa
overall blade can bt moved forward with a large This extrusion may be spar, usually con- CG a "D"
tip-over balance weight. This is not as desirable as sisting of a single cell, or it may be of an essentially
obtaining a more uniform forward CG position from trapezoidal shape. The "D" shape conforms to the
root to tip, since individual radial segments forward portion of the airfoil shape, with the vertical 31adc
may still be acted upon by undesirable moments. part of the "D" serving as & shear member. The
A form of negative damnping can occur when the hollow trapezoida spar, sometimes referred to as a
blade twist rate the loading due to the acrody- box beam, may be made to conform and to the upper and
nAnic pitching moment are in the same direction. lower sides of the airfoil surface but requires the addi-
This may !kiad to excessive torsional response and to tion ot shaped component on the forward side to a
airfoil. This shaped chnr- provide the nose rdius of the subsequent loss of lift on the retreating Htade,
acterized excesive flapwise bending amplitudes. componeiit usually tervol also to provide chordwise by
As with torsional stiffnew, a thicker blade obviously balancing of ttc blade and therefore is made of.brass
relatively possepss more flopwise stiffness, for a given type of or some other dense material,
€onitruction and hance will respond to a fixed less
Extruilog Solid 54.2.1.2 input. lift of flapwise amount
Determination of blae geometry shouid consider This extrusion iR solid in the sens4 that its cross-
the effocts of nonoteady aerodynamics along with sectional outline may be without lifting the tiared