fiMCP 705-202-
auxiliary power unit is to be included. The
analyses involved in system selection are E
Chapter 7. AMCP 706-201. Approximate
the various electrical system components or
weights per unit output are presented with
cussion. Only upon analysis of all secondary
requirements and systen,μ will it be possible
termine whether or not the requirements for
starting, and other secondary power, would
served by an APU or by an electrical source,
In general, duplicate primary electrical
sources will be required. The electrical
load will be split betwetn the sources,
tributed on two busses such that the total
nri be I more than hAlf the capacity of the total
Thus, in the event if failure of one source,
paurP•.eling will enable the remaining source to
all the electrical pows! required.
In addition, an "euek:tial" bus must be
All components vital to the safe operation of
copter under night and instrument conditions
be connected to this bus. In the event of the
failure of the primary source, the emergency
(battery) must provide power to this bus typically
20. min of operation with α IL'* reserve. suoh
fication for the oatttry powered emergency
typically will require the insta'lation of α
charger/analyzer in the system. This unit is
to insure that the charge is maintained and
toted and that the power from the primary
distributed properly during normal
between the utilization load and battery
To illustrate the level of input detail given
designer at the outset, the system specification
delineate the electrical system for α
helicopter - ι.ε., the primary AC power source shall
208-V to 120- three-phase 400-cycle, two be
gearbox, accessory on the mounted generators
primary DC be supplied by two sll
power emergency that rectifiers, and
provided by α nickel-cadmium battery with
ficient capacity to supply power for 20 min
with α 10% reserve. This battery load includes
verter to provide essential AC needs. Also
nar the requirements for lighting, communications,
navigation equipment, and other utilization σ
meat components.
Even with such characteristics predetermined,
&mnains for the designer to select components
meet the applicable, specification and to insure
system the overall of chara-teristics electrical the
form to the requirements of MIL-STD-704.
shall include design system the of tiation
MILE-716.4. analsisin acor~ncewit 7analysis 2rdtnce in with MIL-E-7016.
7-2
μ

trade-off 7-1.3 LOAD ANALYSIS
dis-ussed in The information and general format rmquired for
weights of electrical load analysis are given in MIL-E-7016;
typical however, the requirements may be modified slightly
that dis- (particularly for automated systems) to each. pro- fit
power gram. For instance, the specification requircs that the
to de- form be as indicated, but this can be modified to fit
engine- the format for automated equipment. One page can
be better comprise the equipment list, equipment description,
parts designation, and electrical ratings, while the
power next sheets can obtain the acutal calculations, with
utilization the pages folded such that the columns match the pre-
being dis- ceding sheet when unfolded. Th,ý paragraph that per-
load will tains to operating times can be revised to matc~ι more
source. closely the modern generator overload times; ι.ε., 5
automatic sec, 5 rain, and continuous instead of 5 sec, 2 min,
supply and 15 min. MIL.E-7016 requires that phase-to-
ground identification be Α-N, Β-N, C-N, etc., and
provided, this can be modified to Α. Β, C, and Δ, with Δ being
the heli- the neutral leg of α three-phase four (4) wire system.
must However, an explanaeory note must be included; and,
complete because dclta-conniocted loads arc rare in modern
source helicopters, α code also can be established for this
for situation and explained. MIL-E-7016 gives the for-
α speci- mulp for powcr factor. Usually, this ihiformiation is
bus obtained from the equ-pment manufacturer or by ac-
battery tual measurement; however, the formula in MIL-E-
daigned 7016 may be used. The formula for determining
moni- single-phase and three-phase power factors ib; PF
source is connected watts
χ,#cration - (7-1) PF
charging. (connected watts), (connected + VARS)'
to thc where
may VARS volt-amperes, reactive
particu*4ρ The time intervals for the analysis can be modi-
4.-ε ;, .... U rnfic -. ν in 'Ar, τ ,-*. . V~ . . ... AC .-
of min ι. hundieths 5 second increments, of α tenths that
α minute, and min in hundredths of α minute may 15 transformer-
be used. be shall
st'φ- 7.1.4 LOAD ANALYSIS PREPARATION
of fligu.τ The load analysis, as defined by MIL-E-7016, can
an in- be written, typed, or presented as an automated
specified printout.
From the beginning of α new helicopter dcsign, α
complete elect.ical load file must be kept for each
piece of equipment. Ideally, α printed file card should
be made, allowing jpace it for the following informa-
that tion:
that I. Name of equipnent
nui,,ber part Equipment 2. con-
Substan-
(normal operating) voltage Rated 3. α load
or three- single- AC, (DC, voltage of Type
pha)