)
Specification ail Drawing Geer 4-2.2.13
to adequate specification or α drawing Without
confidence little variables, critical of the control sure
relative of gear analyses the value can be placed in
goals cannot reliability performance; service expected
specific any of and the results guaranteed be
Specification (AQS) Qualification Airworthiness
achieve To relatively meaningless. becomi
flight, of safety maintenance, logistical, workable
program, helicopter cost-effective otherwise
con- paramount α become must product of sistency
variability of reduction or Consistency sideration.
level the operational at greater importance of far
of criterion other of any the achievement is
or strength, ratio, as power-weight such formance
ficiency.
numerous amplified by be drawing must gear The
decision the specifications. However, supporting
is category each into falls of data class to what
result provided the preference individual of matte"
control, quality procurement, for system α workable
change. and review engineering necessary and
of definition anvernino Aru-ntmi-nt ;α ,.hrZ;no 3 θ.
in ambiguities must clarify any and it component,
documents. supporting between
"The as α minimum list is intended review following
stipu- but no of data, guide completeness assuring for
by drawing it be provided lation whether is made
by specification:
material: I. Raw
α. Chemistry
condition β. Certification
χ. orientation Grain
requirement Processing δ.
fro" in-os duction, si.χ and: Shape rn.. . ..
φ. Finish
limits. γ. Decarb
requirements: 2. Heat treatment
controls α. Process
β. Certi!,ation
microstructure including Properties, χ.
and gradient, surface Case. hardness, δ.
hardness, core and tolerance, ρ.nd depth
limitations tempering and Quenching ρ.
regulations interval and temperature, cluding time,
on reprocessing, Limits φ.
Serialization: 3.
traceability and identification α. Proper
cod" and numbers of β. Location
processing transfer during for χ. System
size, marking methods, δ. Control of
for application. processing during point(σ) ,
technique: Drawing 4.
(MIL-Δ-I000), Standards and α. Specifications
Σ '

7Ω0-2Ω ~AMCP
to ANSI practices dimensioning with MIL-STD-10
Y 14.5 in-
location with definition reference axis Gear β.
set-up tolerance for inspection to
con- roundness, waviness, taper, χ. Specified
com- assuring requirements, and finish centricity,
for journals patibility test
areas. to csed Boundaries δ. α
requiremeints: 5. Finishing and
use on limitations and methods α. Specified con-
set- including peening techniques Specified β.
certification frequon- and coverage, gaging, shot, up, is
cy than
cor- stress and emlrittlcment to avoid χ. Means per-
proccsscs. or caustic acid, all electrolytic, ef- in rosion
removal: Stock 6.
and (minimum stock removal on Limits α.
all cased grinding on during if required) maximum as
2 and Item with compatible within tolerances areas α
stress analysis design with is
of control. methods β. Specified
testing: 7. Nondestructive The
for methods requirements and α. Specified the
cichant tcsia and pcnatrant, magnetic particle, or
sequence and frequency β. Specified
of certification of frequency χ. Specified
processes
location of and precise equipment δ. Specified or
measurements hardness identification for necessary
areas. on critical
require,.ents: 8. Balance
es- and speeds limits, measurement, α. Planes of
permissible techniques and located, and tablished
is required V'iiancing dynamic when specified
material lw ation Spr-ifdA and limitc η.
requirements. ba'anct for meeting methods removal
form: 9. Tooth
cnlargcd of tooth form, detail α. Provide clear
root flank and thickness, tooth specifying graphically
dia- OD root dimensions, pin (or ball) over finish,
radius or equivalent fillet and minimurn meter,
ι.ε., listed; data β. Applicable case Dp. N, "0' Pd'
diameter base circle involute ,Π, pitch circular DI,
%/. and in-
data: Involute 10.
ε.γ., specified, zones and modification α. Slope
circle off base rolled use of degrees by
in- such of true start as Critical diameters β.
defined. break limits ard edge volute,
data: Lead It.
defined crown and slope applicable, If α. and
specified, and blend limits break β. End
errors: 12. Allowable
deviation manufacturing limits of Specified α.
4-47