μ : dynsrnic viacosity, Ib-scc/in.8
μ Poisson'σ ratio, dimensionicss
υ heiical tcoth Icad lino inclination, deg
EHD paremeter, dimensionless
= densiiy, slug/ft'or Ib/in.
σ =: standard deviation, dimensionicss
φ - gear tooth pressure angle, deg
- normal pressure angle (helical gear), deg
- transversc operating prcesure ang!ε, deg
gcar tooth helix or spiral angic, deg
- angular acceleration or deceleration cf ro-
tor. rad/sec
ω rotational specd, Hz
4-1 INTRODUCTION
41.1 GENERAL
The proper usc of this chapter as an aid in the
achicvement of satisfactory transmission and drive
system detail design requires α clear understanding of
several basic concepts. The contents reflect the past in
that prior applications are uscd to generate an ex-
pericnce and information basc. The suggested analy-
tica! approeches and techniques for design and for
the basic sclections of gear, bearing. and shafting
iguratiens represent the present state-of-the-art.
H. vever. the technology as discussed docs not
excludc the future in that arcas of uncertainty and
limitations of knowledge are emphasized wherever
they appear applicable. The mechanical drive system
designer must practice his skill from α moving or
living technology basc.
The use of geared trunsmission systems predates
recorded history. Α rclatively sophisticated differen-
tial gear-drive system was employed in the Ch:nese
"South Pointing Chariot" circa 2600 Β.C. (Ref. !).
and geared drives still represent the most efficient
method of power transmission. This chapter is in-
tended to encourage rather than to subvert new und
unconventional approaches to old problems. The sole
limitation upon incorporation of the unconventional
in helicopter drive systems is that thc basic rules of
nature (laws of mechanical physics) are relatively in-
violable and should be treated with respect,
There is no perfect or unique design solution to α
given power transmission requirement, and all
known designs have been compromised by the indi-
vidual requirements of the aircraft into which they
must be integrated. Optimizaion of α design cannot
be viewed within the context of the power trans-
mission task alone; thorough tradc-off studics must
consider such factors as suspension, layout, airframe
support structure, retor control systems, aircraft
weight and balance, space limitations, and locations
ef engines. Almost any known drive system could be

AMCP_ 706-202
made lighter, more efficient, ar δ less costly if it werc
not necessary to conrider interface effects. Hiowever,
the design optimization techniques addresscd in this
chapter are limited to the components of the power
transmission subsy tems without consideration of the
possible overriding effects peculiar to α given aircraft
configuration.
The designer must be aware of the significance of
thc to:al Army environment. Major subsystem com-
ponents such as gearboxes, driveshafts, or hanger
bearing assemblics probab!υ will be subjecteó to
rough treatment during shipping, handling. and
removal frorn or installation on the helicopter. The
consistent use of sophisticated or special fools and
torque wrenches simply will not occur, even though
specified by the designer. Extremes in temperuture,
humidity, sunlight, precipitation, and sand and dirt
contamination will occur during both flight opera-
tion and lengthy periods of outdoor parking. Pres.
sure cleaning equipment — employing steam, water-
soap solutions, or other solvents — wili be usea on
the helicopter and its drive subsystem; thess cleaning
solutions may be more than 100'F hotter or colder
ihan tne components crcating the fuithei risk of thci-
mal shock. Exposure to such hostile envionments will
occur repcatedly for long periods of time, but must
not compromise the mission availability of the
helicopter. Improper maintenance, tool drops, and
reverse or improper installation where possiblc also
will ccur. Component design must be tolerant and
forgiviag of such treatment wherever practicable.
4-1.2 REQUIREMENTS
General requirements arc applicable to all drive
system configurations. There also are specific
requirements that vary according to the aireraß con-
figuration and intended mission (par. 7-1.1, AMCP
706-201) and general re juirements peculiar to par-
ticufar configurations or arrangements of engines and
rotors (par. 4-1.3).
4-1.2.1 Geverat Raquirements
Certain requirements are common to all Army
helicopters regardless of configuration or intended
usage. The desired level of attainment of thesc
requirements and their rclative importance generally
are specified in the appropriate prime item develop-
ment specification (PIDs). Because .ne transmission
and drive system represents α significant portion of
the totai complexity and cost of the helicopter. these
common requirements must be consicered during
4-3