AMCP 706-202
con- The 706-201. AMCP 3-4.1, pEr. in is described
con- flight principal three the siderations pertinent to
maneuvering and lift, high-speed hover, ditions - -
that Ir paragraphs the 5-2. par. in reviewed are
of design two types the of sign-ficance the follow,
- structural and aerodynamic - parameters
design detail on the emphasis reviewed, with
will these that satisfy blades of rotor :manufactuie
requirements.
Twist 5-6..1
SGenera'υ, rotor blades have α linear twist on
attack of angle tip blade the and deg, 8 to 4 of order
con- The primary (washout). at the root than that less
value deaign the of se:ction to leading siderations
efficiency between hover trade-offs the in occur twist
staql. blade retreating high-speed, of delay the and SThus, Thfor raircraft α mission profile that φ ra particular aic at μ si ν π oiet
combines both hover and cruise, an optimum twist
hover high both allow will that determined be must
~~~~gross δ ι cThe weight and good cruise efficiency. .- Sg.ad
.reate to is Dode. hover the in twist of effect The
more uniform intlow distribution trom the biae
(which results "ideal twist" so-called The root. the to
in unretical ω lus of twist ν-ar the blad, rnfo )
orctically would result in α uniform inflow distri-
up an! ounts of twist, across the rotor. Large bution
least 12 deg, approximate this distribution over at
outboard half of the blade. Twist has the effect
. reducing both the induced gad profile drag losses
,.he rotor so that the hover efficiency, generally
par. (-cc increased is Merit, of Figure as to refer:-ed
2, AMCP 706-201).
The theoretical maximum value for Figure
"Merit vadue is unity. This value can occur only if
rotor has no tip losses and also posse2.ses no profile
drag. These conditions cannot occur, so an actual
rotor Figure of Merit value always will be less
unity.
The effect of twist in the forward flight mode
rotor blades is to lower the pitch at the tip while
maintaining α larger angle near the root. This reduc-
tion of tip angle of attack gives α corresponding
decrease in the rotor profile drag power, which,
Σ.Aerodynamic turn, allovs α higher forward speed to be obtained,
parametric studies used to optimize
design twist for α particular aircraft also must include
torsional deflection in obtaining the section angle-of-
attack and the corresponding aerodynamic loading,
Effects of drag loads and centiifugal twisting
should be included ;ν the elastic twist angle deter-
ruination. Th: forward flight angle-of-attA;κ deter-
minartion also should include the effect of blade pitch
rrte (tennis racket effect) on the instantaneous twist

the azimuth. Commonly the around it varits as angle
to due twisting ccr.trifugal -- ι.,., contribution inertia
thc greatar than be will rate - pitch and pitch blade
tar- net the and monrents, twist.ing aerodyninmic
direction. nosedown the is in sional deflectiou
forward-flight high at is that further requirement Α is
zero, or near zero, tip has the advancing 'blade speeds, and
high Mach lift the corrcsponding that load in order
of amount given For α be minimized. drag numbc-
twist and α given forward speed, this minimum drag
For weight. gross specific at one orly met can he
the operations at gross weights above this value the in-
increased in resu'ts pitch collective in required crease is
blade-tip lift and drag loadings Also, at gross
blade twisted highly α minimum, this weights below of
lift negative with speed forward high at operates tIp
causes This disk. the of side advancing the of part on
α nosedown control-load pulse, and the aircraft flight α en eo ε μ yb ι ι - β χ ue η ρ ul ntv ρ -
envclope may be limit-δ brcause the resultant vibra-
limits. prescribed exceeds tion
of twist that is optimum for forward amount loi etitdb η lgtpwrrqieet
the by restricted is also power requirements flight α
hen- relatively increase in oscillatory flanwise linear tip
the general, In increased twist. moment with ding
. blade torsional moments consumption and powe,"
the- duc to compressibility effects can be minimized if, at
the design condition, the blade is twisted to produce
tip. lift on the advancing to zero
the
of 5-6 1.2 Planform Taper
of As with twist, the effect of planform taper is to give
α more uniform inflow distribution across the disk
of 're Fs& the increase to thus and hover during 3-
Merit. The local induced velocity is proportional to
of the square root the lift, which of blaied ie-_ε.inn in
the turn, is directly proportional to the local blade chord.
Thus, by increasing the root chord over that at the
tip, the induced velocity over the inboard portion of
than the disk can be increased, simultaneously increasing
the thrust over the inboard portion of the disk. Ex-
of periniental results have shown, however, that the os-
cillatuy bending nroments are increased as the plan-
form taper is .ncreased (ι.ε., tip chord is much less
than root chord).
in The higher cost of producing planform-tapered
blades has ruled out their general use. In addition, α
blade with planform taper requires α thickness taper
in order to retain α uniform airfoil section with
known characteristics. Also, significant planform
taper results in α srmaller blade tip cross-sectional
also area available for tip balance weight placement. Also,
excessive amounts of root chord as dictated from -
Figure of Mer;τ optimization studies - can cause α
premature power limit on forward speed due to an in-
crease in profile power.