.: ".'2.• .~ • -- :+ "%::"- . ::• =
AMCP 76-202
"tracing to stylus. It may be referred as α "C"
opening tcward the trailing edge. As with the
section, it conforms to the forward portion of
airfoil shape. Commonly the wall is thickened
siderable amount at the nose to provide
and balance resistance to impact damage. The
ai. end its at closed be not ma) or section may
or formed shear web. separately extruded
The principal advantage of extruded
spars is relatively low cost in production. The
and box beam configurations lend themseh'es
ternal pressurization as an in-service
system for cracks. The advantage of the "C"
is that its internal, surface may be inspected
manufacture. Α major disadvantage is that the
extruded spars is confined to constant-section
An added disadvantage is the poor resistance
aluminum to erosion. In low-performance
__•ters, where changes in aik'foil nose radius are not
cal, this problem car, be ignored; however, it
is necessary to cover the aluminum with an
resistant the shield at the leading edge of blade.
the standpoint of efficient design, the
strenge!η-to-weiaht ratio for aluminum is not
tive.
5-6.2.1.3 Formed Sheet Metal
This type of spar is fabricated from mu•.iple
ponents, the minimum being α "C" section
shear web. The shear web may be the web
channel section, with the flanges providing
area with which to bond or braze the channel
"'Δ" "C" section to form α shape. /.dditional
may be added In to made α multicell structure.
instances, α continuous or segmented balance
ι 'C'` In or α the ; radliiuc nose *ι ,φ the.
may contribute to the overall structure, particularly
for chordwisc stillnesm. choice There is α wise
materials for fo-med sheet-metl spars, ranging
niloy low steels to any of several types of
steels tyr noaferrous al!oys such as beryllium
Among the advantages of this type of coistrucilon
is the ability to taper the spar in almo:τ any
desired. Another is the ability to tailor the
components the different to achieve α given
stiffness and strength requirements with greater
cision, Perhaps the greatest advantage is the
dancy of the structure. The bondlines between
components are effective crackstopper6 so that,
if the "C" spar should fail, the remaining
can be designed to carry the loads and prevent
sti ophic failire of tht blade. Finally, depending
tlh- configuration, the alloy and thc spar can
adequ•te erosion protection without ν extra
5-42

section, Reliability is enhanced in that the quality of the
and 'Δ" raw material can be closely controlled inspected
the prior to spar fabrication. The raw material does not
α con- undergo any fundamental change during the fabrica-
tion chordwiue process.
"C"
Tube Steel Round 5-Σ.2.1.4 α with
o" spars for rotor blades One of the earliest types
aluminum was α round steel tube, and certain advantages still
con- exist. Obviously, α touid tube "ID" cannot be used to
to in- stitute α part of the airfoil shape, but must be buried
inspection withia an enclosing structure or envelope. Inherent in
such section the various process= for producing spars is the
during ability to taper both diameter and wall thickness -
use of continuously or in smooth steps - providing con-
blades. siderable latitude in stiffness, mass, and -aerody-
of namic taper of the rotor blade. The heaviest portion
heiicop- of the tube protrudes from the root end of the blade
criti- enivelope, and may have integral attachment lugs or
usually may simply be α cylinder that accepts α socket type of
erosion- retention fitting.
From Generally, excellent material properties are ob-
tained fatigue spars in tubular due to the nature of the cold-
attrac- working process employed iii their fabrication. When
this proce.ss is accompiished with sufficicni pi io,-,
to avoid stress raisers, high fatigue strength can be .
obtained. Further, with proper blade design, the
com- material surrounding the spar tube can have suffi-
and α cient independent strength to make the structure
of α highly redundant. Α disadvantage of the completely
surface enclused spar is the difficuity of access for inspec-
tion, into the
5-6.2.1.5 webs Formed Metal Tube
most An alternative to the round tube is the formed
weight metal tube. Generally, this starts with α round tube
and either α ω'hich "Δ" or an to fnrm -- βý,ýtu-ntlv 6 blade oval In shape within the envelope. the former
of case, the "Δ" is the forward portion of the airfoil
from contour. In the latter case, the oval tube is encased
stainlesrs within the envelope with of the airfoil, much as the
coppr. round tube. The oval shape permits α thin airfoil
compared In to the original tube diameter. either
manner case, taper of the airfoil is quite difficult to achieve,
gages of athough the wall thickness can taper so as to give the
set of desired mass aad stiffness distribution. The root
pre- retent:on alternati.χ4 Ft, identical to those for the
redun- round tube. Most of the advantages and disad-
the vantaaes are the same as for iound tubes.
even
structure 54-2.1.6 Reinforced Molded Plastic
α cata- Molded reinforced plastic lenrls itself to alii,st any
gcometric. upon spar configuration. High-strength fibers -
provide which may be of various types of glass, graphite, or
shield, boron are imbedded in α matrix, usually of epuxy. -