saeumbly. This can be achioved by an over-bend or
under-bend allowance, but this allowance never
should be so groat as to prevent Éand prossure from
bringing the part iato the final form that is desirod in
the finiabed psomably. The rexidual strairs caused by
such α condition are nogligible.
Bondod structures usually are assembled in
tooling. This precdudes α visual examination of the
rodative iocations of components during the curing
stage. Because the adhesive becomcs fiuid at some
poiat during the cure, and thermal expansions are
taking place, some shifling of ono part relative to
anotber usualiy must be anticipated. Thus, adjoining
parts must be dimensionod and tolerancod to accom-
modate such movement. Fig. 17-14 iliustrates such α
casc. The bottom of the figure shows α gap where two
ε ε in ε
gramraod in the dosign and usually should be from
0.020 to 0.069 in., depending upon the size of the
structure. In the cxample sbown at the top of Fig. 17-
14. insufficient allowance was provided and the
partly designed joint willfill with adnesive squeczc-out
Σ-Sg quA oy 0
punod
Currentiy, all structural bonds roquire pressure
during their curing This pressure must be reactod in
some way. Either onc of thc members being joined
muast be stiff arough so that it will not deflect signif:-
cantly under the pressure reyuired to bond the other
manbers to it, or provisions must be made for
tooling that will provide the reaction force. Wi ν
such tooling is sequired, the deiail dexign must pro-
vide space for the tooling and σ means of removing it
after ihe cure cycie is complcied.
IMPROPER DESIGN
0.020 in. min INCLUDING
ACCUMULATED TOLERANCES
Figure 17-14. Baiasce Bar Deslgn

AMCP 706-302
nee
tortions can occur due to differontial expansions, bo-
causc the bonds are being cured at tamperatures
ranging from 223° to 350°F. Such distortions of the
structure can be minimized if ihe member with thc
lowest coefficiont of expansion is ttretched er
otherwise strained by the application of external
forcc whiic undergoing cure. This often sreans that
some extra length must β= provided to permit grip-
ping the momber or pinning it to the bond: fixture.
This extre material can be removed afier the bonding
is completed.
It ofien is impractical to complete an entire as.
sembly in α single bonding operation. This creates U.:
opean nn
the assembly is reheated to bonding temperature
whik additional parts are bonded to it. The mnost
commonly used adhesives are quite weak at the
temperuture at which they were cured and, tkus, there
is α risk of destroying the original bond during α
secondary bonding operation ι proper precautions
are not taken. One such precaution is the use of α
lower-temperature curing adhasive for the secondary
bond. Another, more reliable technique is to reapply
will be subjected to the heat of seccndary bonding.
Provisions nust be made in the design to assure that
reapplication of pressure is possibie in such cuses.
Finally, the designer always should consider pro-
viding, for physicai teating. some kind of extension of
the basic siructure that can be cemoved after bond-
ing. Nondestructive testing techniques are being im-
proved constantly, but there is no subsitute for de-
Ctructive tests of joints thgt are built along with, and
duplicate, the actuel structure.
17-4.5 SWAGING AND CABLE SPLICING
Wire rope and cable may be used in helicopter con-
trol mechanisms, although push rods are preferred.
Aircraft cable made of high-carbon steel wire, elec-
trolytically galvanized and drawn to size, has the
highest strength and greatest resistance to fatigue of
any cable.
Representative wire rope fittings ure illustrated in
Fig. 17-15. For aircraft, the more commonly used
types range in size from 1/16 to 5/8 in.
Swaged fittings on wire rope have α strength rating
equivalent to the strength of the wire rope. These fit-
fngs are appliad to the end or the body of wire rope
by the application of high pressure, causing the stecl
to flow around the wires and strands of the wire rope
to form α union as stron3 as the rope itself. The
necessary high preesure and flow are ascomplished by
means of apecial dies. Machines for this purpose are
deucribed in MIL-Σ-6180 and MIL-Σ-80035.
17-15