AMW 706-2O2
Feed Ammim.lon 1-2.I.5
the from ammunition carry the that chutes The
of be may feed mechAnisms gun the container to
in- fr-Α of be should but design:, flexible or rigid either
of other independent and projections surface Side
the feed to attached must be Ch,:•ts accessories.
mechanism by α quickly detachable means. When
locked in place, the chutes must remain in alignment
with the ammanition boxes and the gun feed mech-
anism throughout all adjustments of the gun. Feed
chute design must accommodate the aliowable twist,
bend, and fan radii of the ammunition belt.
The detail design shall provide accessibility to the
amr~aunition within the belt chute to permit threading
τ'ie belt through the chute and inserting it into the
gun feed mechanism. The feed chutes be of light shall
weight, low friction, and long wearing materials and
of α gage that will ι nsure maintenance of original in-
side dimensions un, ordinary opcrativ:γ conditions. :ρ
flexible If chuting is used, an approved design must
employed. be
Where the aznmunition belt contacts the feed
chute, the design provide relief so that the am- shall
munition links will not drag on the chute. This can be
acompliasW with tracks add%-,δ to the chute beads
rolled into the chute, or with α clearance slot cut from
the chute co that the ammunition will be supported
by the case and projectile and not by the links,
14-2.1.6 Boreslghtdng and Harmonization
The armament installation be designed for shall
compatibility with the rights and/or sighting station
equipment dejcribed by the hcelicoptct system speci-
fication. Α means be provided to boresight the shall
gun to an accurate coincident relationship with the
sight. For pivoting guns, α means muit be provided
to check the gun pointing angles in refetrnce to the
sight commeand anglts.
The helicopter design must include α definite rela-
tionship between armament installrtions and the
sihth; and fire control references. This is accomplish-
ed establishment by of α Weapon System Datum
Plant;. The itzstallation and triverse of each weapon,
and the sighting and Lre control equipment shall be
referenced to this datum. Accuracy of the relation-
ship between the re'erences be in accordance shall
with the governing system specification.
Gun mounts be adjustable. and be shall shall
.apable of being locked in the transverse and vertical
-0.25-deg planes to provide for α minimum of gui'
adjnstment in addition to any adjustment required to
manufacturing overcome aircraft tolerarnces. The
shall deWat dcaign provide for the use of standard
borsigh?. telescopes for performing the boresight
14-6

turrets, provi- in For the guns with operation place..
to axes of alignment checking for madc be sioioshai
horizontal) and (vertical planes datum aircraft the
telescope, boresight standard of the uwe the through
α as angles azimuth to three aligned the turret with
minimum.
14-2.2 GUIDED MIWSILES
Guided missile launchers and guidance control
equipment of the number and type described by the
governing helicopter system specification be in- σ&Wll
stalled. Currently being used for helicopter applica-
tions is the TOW, α tube-launched, optically aimed,
wire-guided missile. Deaiils regarding this missile are
clasifie, and, with required Justification, are avail-
able φ:om the US Army Missile Command
(MICCM). This paragraph provides helicopter
design standards that can be applied to the TOW
weapon system or to any other miusile installation.
14-2.2.1 Locntcos of Laumnber Iu~llaelm
The primary function of the launcher installation is
to release the missile from the htelicopter without
damaging either the missile components or the heli-
copter. The launch mechanism should be designed so
that the missile flight path (during launch) will be
directed to position the missile within (1) the capture
envelope required for initiation of guidance by the
gunner, or (2) the flight path limitations required for
target acquisition and lock-on when tsing α homing
missile.
Helicopter missile launchers generally will be in-
stalled offset from the helicopter centerline on arma-
ment pylons or stub wings to protect the tail control
surfaces and rotor system from possible immersion in
ahe exhaust wake of the missile. Good design prac-
tices include location of the launcher on the helicop-
ter to prevent:
1. Engine compressor stall or flameout as α result
of exhaust gases entering the engine inutke ducts
2. Exhaust gas impingement upon, or ignition
debris collision with, the airframe and. all rotor
systems
3. Harmful corrosion effects as α result of deposits
of missile exhaust residue within the ergine or upon
other components that arv not accessib!ε readily for
prompt cleaning
4. Impairment of pilot'σ or gunners vision by flash
during firing
5. Excessive acoustic noise in the crew compart-
ment during firing
coating 6. Pitting or of the canopy by exhaust gas
and debris
7. Aerodynamic interference between launchers