4-32.3 Sbmfthfg
pri- concerned is itself shaft drive the of Design
fitting selections. end and size, material, marily with
For high torque applications, where tube wall thick-
may mechanism drive similar or α spline permits, ness
drive other or couplings to shaft the adapt to used be
components. With thin wall tubes, an adapter with α
thicke ione. mboron
thicker section must be attached to the tube to per
couplingt
wall to thin bonded .Idhesively be may Adapters
be proportioned must joint adapter The tubes.
concentration at the stress excessive avoid to properly
bond interface. This can be done by machining the
end fitting bore and shaft OD in α tapered or para-
bolic shape so that the angle of twist is constant. if
the section modulus is constant over the length of the
bonded joint, the distribution of shear stress in the
bond material will be even. If the joint were not so de-
signed and an abrupt change in section modulus were
encountered at the end of the fitting, α differential
shear α severe causing occur twist would of angle
The material. in the bond concentration stress
lower be considerably joint would of such α strength
than intended.
larger the to effectively riveted be fittings can The
of margins adequate with drive shaft tubes diameter
safety. The stress concentration effects normally as-
sociated with riveted joints must be taken into ac-
count in the design of this type of assembly. Bolted
joint designs are similar to the riveted joints.'
Welded joints can be made effectively when ferrous
materials are used both for tube and adapter. Normal
efficiency factors for welds must be used when sizing
the joint for steady torsional load and the effects of α
metallurgical "notch" or stress concentration must
be included in the fatigue analysis. Brazed joints also
are effective fo. some designs. Induction brazing is
developed easily and is α cost-effective method. The
heat affected zone in the brazed joint normally is
tempered, and the torsional strength of the joint must
be based on the minimum allowable strength of the
tube or adapter in the tempered zones.
Machining may be necessary subsequent to the at-
tachment of the end fitting to provide parallel and
concentric mounting surfaces so that the drive shaf-
ting runs true.
Materials used for drive shafting include steel,
aluminum, titanium, and nonmetallic composite
structures. Steel shafting is used for engine-to-
transmission applications and other areas defined as
fire-zones. Aluminum, titanium, and composite shaf-
ting are suitable for interconnect shafting and tail
rotor drive shafting. Mill run tube stock can be used

AMCP 706-202
in loxv-spi:δ applications where balance require-
and bar stock, stock Tube stringet. not are ments
for higher used are machned, and completely bored
speed application where straightness and true run-
balancing tolerance meet close to, necessary are ning
fabri- are usually materials Composite requirements.
cated by laminating epoxy preimpregnated carbon or
filament at zero, 45 deg and 90 deg lay to the
shaft axis and curing in an autoclave. The composite
shaft has α very high strength to weight ratio but the
materials. other for than higher considerably is cost
the for stringent less are requirements Balancing
specific weight to the lower due composite shaft
material, but machinable material should be added at
approximately one third span positions to facilitate
dynamic balancing when required. Large diameter
(3.0 σ OD) thin-watlled ahlminuce tubes have demon-
strat exce δ len ballsti to leranc ε toandi
velocity, frod tumbled 7.62-mm bullets. Torque trans-
mitting capability is somewhat reduced following α
hit by this, type of projectile, but he vibration charac-
subcritical for adversely affected teristics are not
exhibits ballistic shafting Composite shafting.
of alumi- bullets similar to that tolerance to 7.62-mm
velocity lower to tolerance the although shafting num
handling or tool, α dropped of impact projectiles,
reduced. is considerably damage
LUBRICATION SYSTEMS 44
Α helicopter gearbox can be designed to meet load
and speed requirements but the useful life of the gear-
box is α direct function of the lubrication and cooling
system. The amount of power loss as heat is governed
by the design of the heat generating elements in the
gearbox. The lubrication system assures attainment
and maintenance of α minimum value of heat loss as
well as minimum wear. The concurrent function of
the lubrication system is to carry away heat.
Heat transfer occurs between bearing outer rings
and housings by conduction and from housings to at-
mosphere by convection. This mode of heat transfer
is minimal compared to the heat transferred directly
to the inside walls of the housings by the cascading
oil, with convection again taking place. The τ6ird
means of heat rejection is by direct transfer to fo:ced
air in an air/oil or, in rare cases, fuel/oil heat
exchangers (oil coolers).
During stabilized operation α balance is main-
tained between heat transfer by conduction/convec-
tion/radiation from the gearbox cases and the heat
exchanger, if one is provided. Some gearboxes are de-
signed for continuous operation without an external
heat exchanger. In this case the surface area (external
4-81