NOTE: BOND ALL PARTS PER MIL-Β-5087
Figure 7-15. Typical
moving arc, α loop must made be to take up the slack
in the wiring. This loop :nust be of sufficient length to
insure that the wire bundle is never under noticeable
tension. This loop must be self-supporting and self-
forming. The seit-supporting feature can he assisted )
by α preformed spring steel wire woven in, or at-
tached to. the wire bundle. ...
6. Attention be paid to chafing of the wiring, shall
Added protection, such as vinyl or Teflon tubing,
may be required on the slack wire bundle. Vinyl
sleeving is not to used be as α substitute for good en-
gineering. Protect:ye tubing should not ride on sharp
edges of structure,
7-7.8 BATIFERY INSTALLATION
Batteries shall be installed so that they are readily
The accessible from the outside of the helicopter. air-
MNI the quick-disconnect be of craft connector shall
25182 type in accordance with MIL-C-18148, and
be accessible without moving any equipment shall or
reaching around any obstruction.
The battery compartment must be located in such
an area that battery gas and fumes will not enter the
cockpit or cabin. The battery compartment shall be
painted with α material resistant to the electrolyte
used in the battery. There be no oxygen, hy- shall
draulic, or flammable lines in the battery compart-
ment.
The batter, cables be clamped and protected shall
against chafing during installation and removal of the
) battery. The battery ground cable be attached to shall
primary structure that is heavy enough to carry short-
circuit current without damage. Α grounding pad, as
cshOwn in Fig. 7-15, may used to increase electrical be
current capacity.

GRýOUJNDING PAD
PRIMARY STRUCTURE
LOCK WASHER
Connection to Grondilag Pad
COMPONEI TS 74
7-8.1 WIRE
The choice of wire should take into consideration
, .. cl'ζ-- . -η . .. φ τ . . ι, not O,,τ
also the environment in which the wire must operate.
The electrical requirements cap satisfied be by the
wire current capability; however, the environmental
requirement may be compatitzie with the wire *.'-
fined in only one appropriate specification. Environ-
mental compatibility will vary depending upon the
type of insulating material used. σ&Wll The designer
assure that the finished diameter of the wire eected
is compatible with the wire scaling ranges of the con-
nector used and compatible with the connector inser-
tion/extraction tool.
 "
. Materials Wire Imulatihg 7-81.1
7-8.1.1.1 Polyethylew
Polyethylene is α commonly used dielectrical
material. It is excellent for high-froquency ap-
plications. Howev,:ρ, because of its physical proper-
ties, it has definite limitations σ an Insulating
material. Polyethylene pgssesis low abrasion rm-
sistance; the maximum 3afe operating temperature is
only 80*C, and it will burn freely in the preence of
an open flame.
7-8.1.1.2 Polynylclilorlide
Polyvinylchloride (PVC) has physical properties
that surpass those of the basic polyethylene. It
poswsess greattx abras-an resistance, higher ope-
rating temperature limitations, and increased resis-
tance to flame. However, the molecular imbalance of
PVC precludes its use at high frequencies, although it
7-27