had α circtmforential finish of 16 pin. and an axisl
finish of 8 pin. Conroquertiy, both typas had identi-
cal reduced finiah number &-valuos and bence vir-
tually identical λ-valuos, but the croas-ground data
exhibited markedly lower φ-valucs. The surface hard-
nese was Rcoo-63 in both types, and the crous-ground
disks were prepared using grinding tochaiquee nor-
mally used for spur goar tooth manufacture. Α cons-
tant ratio of v./v. - 0.556 was representod, and the
lubrication was jat suppliod Μ1Λ-Λ-7808 at 190°F.
Thereiore, α particular point on α gear mosh where V.
- 55.6% of v, is roprescntod on this figere ue à
lincarly increasod gear spoed (rpm) by moving from
Icft to righat with incrcasing . Unfortunately, thonc
data do not refloct α constant lond, but rather thc
limit losa ss detined by scuffog.
The designer shouid be aware that under fixed
lubricunt condition there is littic be can do to control
À at fow speods aside from refining the surface finish.
Additionaî powe: loss sources of & transmission
syglem include the acoessorics and the oif pump. Ac-
cessory power reguirements are fixed by the indi-
vidual helicopter roquirernents, the exact typc of ac-
cossory Involvad, and the demand or duty cycle re-
quired. Determination of scosssory power requirs
ments is discussed in Chapters 7 and 9. Oil pump loss
Π, is estima.od adoquatciy by the simpic equation:
Fpk ,hp (4-19)
пр
where
F oil flow rate, gpm
ρ discharge pressure at pump outlct, psig
κ conversion constant for units, 5.83 × 10-*
efficiency of pump (generally from 0.5
to 0.9). dimensionicss
For α 20-gpm system with > reguiated dischsrge of 60
psi, the pump outiet pressure would be 120 paig under
typical conditions. For an assumed pump efficiency
of 0.5, the loss would be:
: (0.5) (20) (120) (5.83 × 10-) = 2.78 hp (4-11)
4.1.2.1.1.3 Size
Compact gearbox size is important in the achieve-
ment of low subsystam wcight bocausc thc housing or
casing that encloses the dynamic components con-
tributes α significant proporticn of the total system
weight. Howevor, compactioa should not be empha-
sized to tho point of causing excessive oil churn and
windage loascs to the detriment of efficiency. Ref. 21

AMCP 706-202
suggests that cide clearances of 0.5 in. or greator
batwoen gcars and caeing walls result in negligible
losses due to oil churn. The requirod clearance
betwoen cnsing wail and gcar outaide diamerar in-
crouses with incrcasing valuce for such variables as
arc of conformity, spuod of gcar rotation, oil via-
cosity, amount of oil jeuod on the gear mash, and tho
amount of run-off or drainage oil in thc locetion st
question. There are no formulas for calculating patis-
fartory diametral cicarances, but some suoczasful
design applications have amployod valuez of ap.
proximaiciy 0.5 in. for 2000-fpm pitch line velocitics
and 3.0 in. for 25,000-fpm ve'ocities for 180 deg of
conformity and kinematic viscositics below 10 centi-
stokes. Even at these clearances, it frequcatly
becomas nocessary to provide scrapers or some
means to retard vortex generation and localized re-
circulation of the oil. When wet sump systems are
employed, sufficient vertical space must δè provided
to koep the operating oil level (including tha serared
or foam layer) below the gears and bearings.
4-1.2.1.1.δ Niotse Lerels
The fourth performance criteria of low noibe ievet
has reccives incarased attention af late. Tranemiasion
noise is usuaily of imporcance osty ir relation to crew
and passenger comtort levels, white rotos #nd engine
noise are the principal contributo:o to thr aural do-
tectability of the helicopter. The fundemental gear-
meshing frequencies, which renge fsomn 40 to 22.000
Hz in present-day gearboxes, are the primary sources
of noise. Refs. 22 and 23 identify the magnitude of
the problem for two helicopters. The overail heli-
copter configuration and the resulting number and
location of gearboxes dictate the areas affected by
noise; χ.γ. α tandem-roîos helicopter may have its
forward transmission focated above the crew com-
partment, resulting in less ravorable noise conditions
in the passenger arca, while the reverse may be true
for α single-rotor configuration.
Gear noise may emanate from the gearbox as σ
result of forced or resonant vibration of the housing
or cascs. It then reachas the. rew: ?ρ passengers eitbes
through direct airborne paths (windows, access pan-
els, or door seals) or through airframe structural
pathways connectod to the gearbox mounting system.
It is far more efficicnt and desirable to combat such
noise at its source rather than to rely sokly upon tho
use of insulating and soundpsoofing coatings or blan-
kets in the crew of passenger compartrients. The
latter measures generally add more weight than
would be needed to make comparable improvement
in the problem at its source. Sound insulation also in-
crerses maintenance man-hours due to the nood for
4.11