8.-.3.4 Very H1g0 Frqme~y (VHF) taning omnidirectional coverage sometimes can be
The marker beacon receiver operates at 75 MlIz. overcome by using two anennas. If the radiation
The antenna radiation pattern must be downward- patterns of the two antennas are complomontasy and
looking, and must be polarized parallel to the axis of the antennas arc isolated from each other, they can be
the helicopter. There are several antennas that will driven in parallel with appropriate impedence
meet the radiation requirements. One is a balanced matching.
antenna mounted under the airframe. Other suitable
designs are loaded half loops and flush-mounted "-3.5 Ultra Foo.SCy High (UHF)
cavity elements mounted in the same location. UHF communications operate in the frequency
The glidescope receiver operates in the frequ:ncy :ange of 225.400 MHz. Monopokl-derived con-
range of 329-335 MHz. The glidescope antenna must figuratiods are used as both UHF and flush-mounted
designed be for reception of horizontal polarized types, such as the annular slot. The gmeral require- V4
signals with minimum reception of vertically ments for VHF location and intallation pertain to
polarized signals. The antenna must be located for- UHF as well.
ward on the aircraft for proper glideslope reception.
The VOR operates in the frequcncy range of 112- 8-53.6 Special Puopue
118 MHz and requires a horizontally polarized, There are other types of equipment that require an-
omnidirectional antenna. The ILS receiver operates tennas, but these are limited in use. The con-
in the frequency range of 108-112 MHz and uses the sidcrations for location and installation oC' these an-
same antenna as does the VOR. The location of the tennas depend upon individual system requirements.
VOR antenna is critical due to rotor modulation ef- Doppler radar antennas, for example, always are
fects. The VOR determines the phase difference mounted flat in the bottom of the aircraft. general, In
between two received signals modulated with 30 Hz, the same restrictions discussed heretofore apply to all
which is about the third harmonic of rotor-induced types of antennas.
modlation; if irttilfetreijc iu too gSrat, tht VOR is
inoperable. A loop mounted on the undcrside of the REFERENICES
airframe and configured with a vertical axis is
suitable for the VOR antenna. Location of any an- I. USAECOM Manual, Interfereuce Reduction
senna on the underside can result in airframe shadow- Vols. Guide and I for Dejign I!. AD fgineers,
ing in some direction. The rem's horn (a modified 619 666.
dipole), stacked dipoles, folded dipoles, and Push- 2. AMCP 706-125, Engineering Design Handbook,
mounted cavities also aJ! are suitable designs. Electrical Wire and Cable.
Communication equipment operates in the 3. John G. Mast, Efimintaon of Sixgl VO.R Rotor
frequency ranges of 30-76 MHz and 118-150 MHz. Paper 924, Modulation, 31st Annual National
Some form of monopole is used most often for com- Forum of the May Ameriam Helicopter Society.
munication. The position of these antennas is de- 1955.
termined by the necessity of obtaining omni- 4. Myron Kayton and Walter Fry, Avionics Naviga-
directional radiation patterns. The antennas must be John Wiley and Sons, NY, lion Systems, 1969.
designed to prevent corona discharge, and shculd be Turnbow et ni., 5. TR Cra'h Survival Design Guide.
decoupled from triboelectric discharges that would 71-22, USAAMRDL Fort Eustis, VA. Revised
introduce noise into the receiver. The difficulty of ob- October 1971.
I
8-14