AMCP 706-202
the normal and thc backup systems. During thc time
delay, thc pressure-scnsing system tests thc subsystem
and mechanically inhibits the switching function if
the subsystem does have an external Icak. Fig. 9-17
contains α schematic of this approach.
9-2.6.2 Operating Pressure Considerations
Operating pressure is α function of helicopter size,
complexity. and performance. Sinaller nelicopiers
with manual reversion capability may use low
pressures, such as 1000-1500 psi, without significant
weight penaltics. Gencrally, Jynamic scal life is beuter
with reduced pressures. Larger helicopters will
require 3000-psi systems in order to at:ain reasonable
volumes and system weights.
The impact upon devclopment, qualification, test
and maintenance equipment requirements mnay be α
strong motivation for maintsining 3000 psi or lower
pressures. However. it is desirable to conduct α
syster pressure-weight-cost trade-off study as α
means of actermining optimum helicopter hydraulic
system configuration. Par. 9-4.2, AMCP 706-201.
contains α discussion of the pressure selection con-
siderations as related to preliminary design func-
tions.
Thc basic scicction decision usualiy is madc in the
preliminary design phase. and α later re-evaluation
change as the design α.ivgnces into thc hardware
phasc.
BACKUP SYSTE:Δ1 NORMAL STSTEN
RETUIRN $ RETURN
BLOCKING
SECTION
TIME
DELAY
NOTE VALVE SHOUN IN IHE
SLUSY,TEN TEST Α DE
OF PRESGUAE VESSEL
INJEGANIY ENISTS.
SENSCR BEL ALLOW
DE CHANICAL- COWLE!ION OF SAITCHI-
INTERCOINE CT/ ING F FOESURE VESSEL
WAS LOST ν 'EGR:TY, THE
PRESSURE SENSCR MB LL NOT ALLOW
SENSING SLBSYSTEM COPLETION CF TE
Σ Σ*ITCHNG
Figure 9-17, Swicchöag Vadre
9-10

9-2.6.3 Selection of Fluid Medium
MIL-H-5606 fluid is the most commonly uxd
medium and has present widespread usage through-
out the military world.
Α synthetic hydrocarbon δ:fined by MIL-H-83282
now is being considered for use in Army sircraft. Ius
primary attraction is that it is significantly lcss Bam-
mable than MIL-H-Σ606. Operationa! charactzr-
istics at ve:υ low temperatures have not as yet bacn
fully established.
For α chorough discussion of hydraulic Buids, refes
to AMCP 706-123.
9-2.6.4 Filraticn (Contamiaatioa)
Systern fluid filtration and external contamination
factors must be considered since they have α direct
efiect upon the reliability and scrviceability of the hy-
draulic system.
9-2.6.4.1 Fleid Fitratiou
Several filtration mcthods are available. These in-
clude: central filtration, subsystem filtration, return
case drain ccncepts, and suctios line fitration.
Central filtration involvcs α pressure filter, α return
fiter, snd α φ ump caee árain fiter. This fitratior
method requires that all critica! componcats, such as
flight control sctuators, shall have inlet acreens.
These scrocns shal be in the size tanlge of 100-150
maicron sbsolute particie. ι.ε.. particias with two
dirnensions larger than the riaximum allovable stall
Subsysten filtration involves & pressure filser zhat
cach component or subsysiem. The returs filter
generally will be of α common single configuration.
The casc drain from cach pump shail have α scparate
filter.
The return case drain philosophy applies to both of
the foregoing categories. The case drain and return
system filter functions may be combined within α
single filtet assembly. The assembly may contain
cither α singie- or two-stage clement. If the clement is
two-stage, thc full or transicnt flow stage shell be per
Mill-F-8815 (5 microns nominat, 15 mirsons abso-
Jute) and ihe low flow or bypasing stage stall be 3 or
5 microns absolute. The capabißity of the singke-stage
eiement may be α compromise between the two. such
as α Σ-micron abtolute capability.
Succion lin: feltration genergtly is not used bocause
the sucaion pressure capstvilities of pumps demand
that the suction line pressure drop be hegi to α
minimuns. This means & suction lite ciemest would
be quite largt anst, thercfore. bufty and heavy. Tu
weight penalty usually is unzcceprable.