)
706-202 ~AMPk
Wtien thickness ntocs* pef mits in the of convorsion oA α particular condition load into case an
-ε~γ., plate, bar, castings, and forgings it is preferable equivalent cori~ition load of different steadly and al- -
that the specimeris machined be with α round cross ternating load levels. MIL-HDBK-5 presents the
section. The circumnferentia surface should be data in α constant-lire diagram rather than the Good-
pohshcd in order to remove any conoentra- Ctress man diagram. in any case, α diagram constructed
lions or notch effccts. from coupon data should be revised as compoaznt
In order to predict allowable fatigue stre'igth tor α and assmbly test data art generated.
part or component, notched specimuins should be
tested to determine the resulting fatigue strength Noumetal Σ-7.2.2
reduction. Experience has shown that α typical value The use of plastics reinforced with glass, gralihitt,
of this notch fa'ztor is about fov 3.0 almost all and/or other K., advanced composite materials thc ;ν
metals. Tht notch factor K7, which may calcu. 6ε construction of rotor blades will ρ-Auire the develop-
lated or be based on test data, is the ratio of the peak ment of both Σ-N curves and rational Goodman dia-
stresses in notched and unnotched specimens. grams. Additionally, the processing of these matcrials
Data from tests conducted using the appropriate is subject to variations among manufacturers. There-
configuration of coupons will establish an curve, fore, care must be exercised Σ-ps' that test specimens are
In developing each curve', α minimum of five representative Σ-N of the rnatenal and processes to be
specimens should be tested at varying alternating used in the blade construction. Particular attention
loads with the same steady load, should bc given to fiber orientation with rcspect to
The stress level at which no failure occurs after 10' the principal axis of loading.
cycles for ferrous metals establishes the endurance The establishment of α family of Σ-N similar χ~urves
limit of the material. family Α of Σ-N curves, each for to Fig. 5-32 is an acceptable method of determining
different α steady load will provide sufficient data to allowable fatigue strength for α particular reinforced
Go0dima- diagrarn α Par. 00"τ I=ε Mat.rial ANMCP _"-!1. (ACM). adunn',j1 compoite no-' 7 viiutic-α - 201). The Goodman diagram, in turn, will permit the These strengths, fatigue or endurance limits shall be
Τ
CROSS PLOTTED FROM FIG 3-12, MIL-HDBK-17 FOR
- -.
POLYESTER RESIN MIL---77 .. - 40
ζ
tU
30 ,. -
0.20-
)
30LE -η.. ~tng~~ssCycls 1ir~ρ5-3τ. Α α Vaiou Stedy tree Lvelst~0.300tt
4-_3