kydrogan or cracked ammsonia shall not be usod.
Hydrogan smbrittlement preeents α major probikm
because hydrogen is abeorbed readily from baths and
gasos. Quenciting is in water, and quench delay timos
muet be minimal, excopt that the product shall β. air
-on o -een
moas of titanium &τ temperctures above 1 100-F un-
der oxidizing conditions may recuis in severe scaling
and oxygen diffusion to form α bard, brittlc surface
layer. Titanium alloys are suscoptibic to stress cor-
rosion by balides at temperaturts above Σ50°F.
17-6Σ DESIGN ASPECTS OF
HEAT TREATING
part may ba subjectod in the courae of its fabrication
basd treat reçuirements must be defined clearly on the
drawings and in the process spscifications for the
proper soquence to achieve the requirod end-item
propertios. Becauze the ond-item propertics serve to
qualify the entire procees, the design muat be such
that the propertios realistically can be achievod. As-
sisiance in ths best trestirg aspects of tbe design of
metal parts can be found in à number of military
documents, including MIL-HDBK-5. -693, -694.
-697, -698, and -723. Additional information will be
found in Ref. 4 aad in Chapter 11, AMCP 706-100.
17-6 WORY. HARDENING
17-4.1 GENURAL
Wiben σ strees is ismposd upon α metal, anane or all
of thee atoucs in its graine are moved froen their equi-
librium poaitioas, resultisg in crystalline de- formation. If enocagh strees is appliad lo defora the
omA
formation. Ω'ven this oocurs below the recrystal-
lizativn tompe.ature, the matal is said to be "cold
workod"; ι.ε., the grains bave been distortod, elon-
gatod, and fragmentod. As stress is increased, the dis-
locations in the crystals move to grain boundaries or
sont increasing reaistarce to further plastic de-
formatico. The metal then is work hardenod.
Work hardening has some distinct disadvantages.
It can cause cracking in shoot-rmetal forming, or it can
roquire intormediate annenling stops during shaping
operaticas. In machining, ibe motal chip may be-
come severely deformed before breaking away from
the wo:κ pioce. Austonitic stoels are difficuit to
machine because of their high rate of work

MCP 206-202
bardening. And, as α consaquence of their high duc-
tility, much work bardening occurs before rupture of
the chip. This results ir: increud power con-
sumption and tool woar.
On the other hand, work hardoning can be bene-
ficial. Iacrcascs in tensilc and yield strengths can be
obtained, as can resistance to bending and buckling.
along with increasod fatigue resistance. Judiciously
employod, the phenomenon can be used to provide
lighter, stronger parts, thereby eliminating the need
for subsoquent, expensive heat treating equipment
and processcs. The designer mus: be careful to select
material that will work hardan to the proper degrec
during fabrication in order to produce α part having
the sequirod hardness or rigidity without excess
weight. Knov:ledge of which gage and condition of
material to select can produce significant savings. For
instance, many materials can be purchased with
varying degroes of cold working; aluminum, stain-
1/4 hardened, 1/2 hardened, 3/4 hardened, and fuliy
hardened by cold working.
17-6.2 FORMING
Forming opeiations represent the major arca
where savings can be obtained by judicious use of the
procees of work hardening. Aii operations that in-
corporate bending, stretching, or upset of metals, and
result in plastic deformation below the crystal-
lization temperature, involve work hardening. The cf-
foct may be advantageous or disadvantagcous, de-
paniing upon the seloction of the starting material
and the raie and degroe of deformation. For instance,
steinloss stoel has high ductility but wrinkles casily
with compression. À strong. light muffier header
having incrcased rigidity and increased resistance to
fatigue can be madc by sclectiag the proper hardness
of stainicss steel and then dezigning the blanking and
forming dies to provide the required degree of de-
formation in the proper piaces. In this casc, an inner
stretch and an outcr compresive deformation would
be requirod.
Similar considerations also may be appropriate for
dishod and flanged parts such as wheels, pulleys, and
fairings; and in the shaping of bars and tubcs, intc-
gral stiffeners, and large, stretch-formed shapes such
as cowlings.
17-6.3 ROLLER BURNISHING
Roller burnishing is α method of improving finish
and dimensional accuracy, and results in work
hardening α surface without the removal of metal.
The operation is employod primarily with internal
17-19