DF MOUNTING MOUNTING 108
DF vs DS 4-30. Rtlative Thermal Preload Figure -
be enhanced significantly requiring by the faces and, with two-piecie that outer rings. in special instances,
flush be equally offset) (or under a relatively henvy eliminates thg. This need for counter-boring and per-
oxial gaging load. This load the to resist should at least thrust be of' mits 25% bearing in either direction.
the operating thrust load for maximum benefit. *Ihe inner groove generaly is ground with shims
Raceway groove shoulder the heights must halves so upon ade- bet-aceon the be split that, removal of
elliptical quate to support of the contact area the 4,all- shim the and ausembly of bearing, a Gothic arch
race. Shaft misalignment and combination ralial- shape results in the raceway groove. This con-
thrust loads can affect a skewed ball path that figuration reduces the axial play of the bearing for a crn-
to this tributes Most requirement. contact heavily angle. loaded This given fabrication technique
helicopter angi.ý.r contact bearings require a generally enables one to be additional hall assembled
:r shouk height-to-ball diameiter ratio the of 0.25. into complement, incremaing thus load-carrying
Excessively skewed patiss may require higher capacity for the same exttunal envelope. Thrust-to-
and shoulders of increased for radii at curvature lead ratios must rudial be 2.0 to approximately IeaSi
the nonrotating race also groove. in- Such conditions p)revent degenerative Mis- three-point m!ritact.
crease the requirem ent for retainer pocket-bali alignment and the resultant ball path skew also must
clearance excessive retainer wear or Irac.- to prevent be considered in avoid' ng three-point contact. The
lure. The balls in the loaded zone of operation will shim thickness that may used in grinding the be ring
pooition themselves as race-ball traction the need the con- halves by to maiintain race is limited
x )
ditions dictate, including loads if in the highi meainer absence of a clearance DW ause thrust load. the
arc clearances insufficient, used in loaded inner ring is oaly half the width of that
may Single-row be a conventional angular contact bearings ring bearing, total counte.bored
fabricated with two-piece inner rings bearing), (J-type radial between the loaded ring the shalt and pressure
4-53