еж
which oniy thrust londs are preoent, spocial thrust
For high-speod appiications, bali bearings or cylin-
drical roller bearings should be givon first considora-
tion since their speod capabiliti-σ are significar.tly
greater than those of tapered or sphericel roller
boarings. Where the motion between two members is
oscillatory rather than rotary, consideration should
be given to sliding spherical or journal bearings or to
laminated elastomeric bcarings.
ё Environmental conditions that must be considerod
include op.reting temperature, possibility of con-
tamination, and corrosive simosphere. Knowiedge of
the operating temperatures to be encountered will aid
in the definition of the bearing materials to be used.
Bcaring steels usually can be stabilized thermally for
α particular range of operstiag temperatures. En-
vironments that can cause contamination or corro-
sion may require that spocial scaling devices be incor-
porated into thc bearing. Operation in highly cor-
rosive atmospheres may require the use of corrosion-
resistant bearing steels.
Unce the design requirements are defined and the
possible bearing configurationa selected, the designer
should perform the necessary bezring life calcuia-
tions. For rotating. rolling-element bearings, the
basic Β-ι0 iife equation is:
Lo 16,667 N (ζ) ,hr
ог
Λ'10 = 10 () rev
where
Ljo = Β-10 life, hr
Λ'ιn = Β-10 life, revolutions
Σ = basic dynamic capacity, 1β
ρ = equivalent radial load, ib
N = rotational speed, rpm
ε = life exponent, 3 for ball bearings and 10/3
for roller Searings
The basic dynannic capacity C is defined as the
radial load that α bcaring will endure for α Β-10 life of
one million revolutions of the inner ring. with the
outer ring stationary. This capacitv Cun be Cefined
equivalentiy as the radial load that will yield α Β-10
life of 500 hr at α shaft speed of 33-1/3 rpm. The basic
aynamic capacities of their standard bearings are
available from the bearing menufacturers. For new
designs, the Anti-Friction Bcaring Manufacturers
Association (AFBMA) has established procedures
for calculating the capacity bascd upon internal

AMCP 706-202
bearing goomotry (Refs. 1 and 2). When comparing
catalog capacitios q' oted by different manufacturers,
definod similarty in terms of life and speod. Load
ratirgs based upon livos and speeds other than 50) hr
and 33-1/3 rpm can be converted to basic dynamic
capacity C by:
|1/
C, (16,667) ,1β (16-3)
where
C, - load rating for lifc Λ, and speod N., 1β
Λ = life, hr
N\ρ$ = speed, rpm
Thc equivalent radial load Π is definei as that
radial load that yiclds α bcaring life oqual ro tie life
resulting from the combination of redial and thruat
loads actually imposod upon the bearing. It is
caiculated by the relation:
Π - XVR + YT , 1β (16-4)
wiere
R - radial load, Ib
= thrust load, 1β
χ,Y - radial and thrust factors, raspectively,
dimensionlces
υ = rotation factor, dimer ionieas
(16-1) The radial and thrust factors Ξ and Y are basod
upon internal bearing geometry and are given in
Refs. 1 and 2. The rotation factor V is equal to 1.0 if
thc inner ring of the bearing is rotsting with respoct
(16-2) with respect to the radisl load. to the radial load, and 1.2 if the outer ring is rotating
In most helicopter applications, the losds and
speeds vary over α predictable spectrum. In such in-
stances, the equivalent radial load Π can be expresed
and is
determined by:
PN [ q(Π) lfe ,lb (16-5)
where
= prorated load for speed N, . 1β
rotational speed at which the equivalent
radial loa: is determined, rpm
– load imposed on bearing for fraction of
time 1,, lb
N = speed imposed on bearing for fraction of
timet,.rpm
– fraction ef time, dimmensionless (the sum of
fractions must be exactly 11
16-5