shown the digsctive capabilities of conventional
copter gec~ring to be quite discharge adequate to
"spm bullet insto the oil sump without functional
failure or the power transmission systrmn.
Integral gear shafts shafts, and quill external
con~nect or tail rotor drive shafts must be
ficient diameter to withstand edge hits from
tumbled bullets without failure. In thin-wall
num shafts operating with a minimum of 20%
gin on first whirling critical speed, an extc.-nal
meter of in. 3.0 is sufficient to defeat the 7.62-mm
threat whil- 4.0 a in. diarantecr is necessary to
the 12.7-mm threat. Steel shafti-i may be
siderably smaller depending upon the wall
employed. course, Of in event of damage the
in& portion of th~e shaft must have sufficient
to transmit the required maximum torquc.If
column buckling torque is 300% or more above
torque, simple shear-stress & calculation of
maining post-impuct area sufficient. However, is
when the buck inS margin is it is generally levas,
to conduct sary real or simulated ballistic
demonstrate the adequacy of the design. Note
DUPLEX BALL BEARINGS
Figur 4-14. Typical

AMMP 7W~202
hel;- is undesirable to increase diameters excessively sincc
the vulnerability is then increased for fuzed round
threats.
ball and roller Most bearings are fabricated from
through-hardened inter- steels and. consoqoently, usually
of au1T- will fracture through the outer ring when struck a by
fully bullet at nt.ar-ero obliquity. The case outnouncling
alumii- and liner s~tucture serve to expend sorie of tha kirse-
mar- tic energy of the bulict; however. cony thick- ontional
dia- ntsse of these structures gsterally insufficient are to
prevent fracture of the bearing ring. Orientation of
defeat the rolling elements of the bearing at the instant of
con- impact has much to do with the ring fracture mode. A
thicknms zero obliquity hit between rolling elements fra-
remain- quently will discharge a double-fractured "pit-slice"
strength ring segment into the bearing, while an nligned hit
the often produms single a outer rikig fracturc and fre-
this quently fractures the roll~ni element well. so When
the re- the des.Sn allows, a space between the outer gearbox
wall and portion of the housing supportiag the
neces- bearing liner ring is ind effective in reducing bearinb
tests to damage. space P~as provides a place for the spa?'ling
that it debris from the initial impact to and txpand eject,
ROLLER BEARINGS
Tall Rotor Gearbox Vulnerable -
4-19