.. . .....
Σ*
o ti ρ•φ δ to as boxes, pockts, or fairinug
Obviously, this type of construction provides for no
centriflial load-carying and ability, makes little
ι contribution to chordwise stiffemu unless each of-
meat is connected by α continuous, structural,
Straeliog edge aft strip. The skins of the section
segments may be of metal or reinforced plastic and
are stabilized much the same as are the skins in blades
sections. with continuous aft
Among the advantages of segmented skins is the
ability to replace individual segments in the eveat of
local damage. Because the skins are. in α sense, non-
considerable structural, damage can be sustained
without destroying the basic structural integrity of
the rotor blade. Also, with'this configuration it is
easier to achieve blade bending stiffnesse of the
values required for the natural frequencies desired in
an articulated system. One of the greatest disadvan-
tages in segmented sections aft is the increased dif-
ficulty in preventing water from entering the rotor
blade. The number of segments may vary from 8 to
segments 20 or more, and each joint between must be
sealed.
5.6.2.3 Wraparoad Skins
section Α special form of continuous aft is that in
which the skin of the rotor blade wraps completely
around the nose radius, providing both the upper and
lower aitrfoil surfac.σ in one piece. This method of
crion contrtL may be used with any of the previously
strengthening described internal stabilizing or
members, although generally it ι used with α solid
extruded spar or α formed-section tubular spar. Such
usually α skin is made of iluminum, although the use
of other light alloys or fiber-reinforced plastic is not
preclded. he I method of manufacture normaidy is to
form only the nose radius in the center of the skin
material, and to depend upon the spar and/or other
internal members to control the remainder of the air-
foil contour. Α disadvantage of wraparound skins is
cose the difficulty of maintaining contour :oler-
ances, particularly airfoils. in nonsymmetrical Also,
in order to maintain :he required weight and balacce,
the skin normally is too thin to afford protection
against erosion of the nose and, therefore, an ad-
shield is ditional erosion required,
Retmade End 54.23 nreo
end Root retentions vary considerably from one
blade design to another, depending upon the type of
rotor system and the type of blade construction. The
main retention bolts or pin(σ) provide the interface
Because between the rotor blade and the hub. of the
high bending and centrifugal loads at this interface, it
3-44

necessary is to the blade thickness to achieve increase
sufficiently high arm. section modulus and bearing
accomplis;'ed is Commonly, this by bonding metal
upper laminates external surfaces to the and lower of
the blade, and then adding α relatively heavy remn-
tion or grip plate external to the stack of laminates.
The retention plate contains the main holo(σ), which
may pus through the envelope blade or through top
lugs retention and bottom that are extensions of the
plates. Where the bolts pass through the blade enve-
lope, it is reinforocd with Internal, metal filler blocks
that effectively that create α solid airfoil section in
region. When α tubular steel spar is wed, it may be
extended inboard of the blade envelope and be fitted
socket, with α or cuff, which is either damped or
threaded onto the heavy root end of the spar. 1he
socket may contain α single retention hole or two
holes, δ.pending upon the location and configura-
tion of the lead-lag hinge of the hub. Here, again, the
holes are through lugs that are an integral part of the
socket and mate with similar lugs on the hub.
5-6.2.4 Tip Closures Hardware and
rai1 JiUIaUst Ai.flji tyfjMof IAS- buI%4WA- hiIUvc flA sUaa the and adjustable weights within envelope at the tip
end. Fixed weights are employed to provide adt quate
rotor inertia, to control flapwite bending fme-
quencies, and to place the static chordwise and CG
location. the nominal dynamic axis in the proper
Generally, adjustable weights are installed in pairs,
and displaced equally forward aft of the deon dy-
namic axis of the blade. These are used to equalize
the spanwis' mass moment of one blade against
α another or against master, correcting for manufac-
turing tolerances α in weight, and also to provide
forward or aft adjustment of ti dynamic axis - to
achieve equal pitching moments from one blade to
another. With adequate precision in the tooling and
methods of manufacture, the uced for either or both
of the.:ε adjustments may be eliminated.
Tip closures may be simple flat plates or relatively
complicated hollow, airfoil-shaped, monocoque
screwed shells, usually or riveted to the blade envo-
some lope. simply Various sOapes are in use: rounded
at the end, some made in the shape of α wedge, and
some with very unconventional planforms. Most tip
α plates or caps have small protuberance at the
extreme tip to facilitate tracking of flag the rotor.
54.2.5 Trim TrOs
Rotor blades generally are fitted with ground-ad-
justable trim tabs. The tab may be an extension of the
fioler skin or of the trailing edal strip beyond the
nominal trailing edge of the airfoil, and may extend