9|α
--
TABLE 7-1. OF OUTPUTS
CONTINUOUS-CURRENT
CONTINUOUS- SINGLE-PHASE
POWIR-FACTOR, % CURRENT CONVERTER
GENERATOR
100 100 85
100 78 95.5
90 100 74
ole voltages in the DC output can avoided be by the
use of polyphase input supplies.
MIL-STD-704 specifies that utilization equipment
requiring ar. AC input of 500 volt-amperes (VA) or
more and α 28 V DC output of 5 Α or less use shall
static conversion, unless it is designed sp-cifically for
use with DC generators.
to DC AC Converters
Σ2,5.'.
fails into also into AC converting DC for Devices
static. The rotary and classes: fundamental two
devices same types of the class are basically rotary
be either they may - conversion in AC-DC used
con¶verters; the or synchronous sets motor-generator
of ope- the capability converter having synchronous
con- AC. In this and converting into rating on DC
and inverted be operating to are said they dition
In inverters. as commonly therefore are known
said regarding motor-genera- general, what has been
remains true here versus synchronous converters tors
and are more cheaer, the inverteirs more cmlqcrat,
sets. In comparable motor-generator than compact
this mode, however, some suitable electrical DC-AC
con- since used be must control speed mechanical or
condition. (The this in away" "run to tend verters
highly inductive load weakens the field through
armature reaction and allows the speed to increase.)
For most ordinary, ι.ε., relatively low-load, appli.
common DC-AC conversion device cations the most
is the static inverter. This is α circuit that alternately
connects the output lines to opposite side of the DC
such solid-state com- typically via the use of supply
Such semiconductor inverters, ponents as thyristors.
using both thyristors and transistors in three-phase,
aircraft conventional are in bridge circuits, full-wave
in static inverter rotary and between choice The use. Sany cast must depend upon such parameters specific
required output input sources, the . as the available
relative costs - chnasacteristics o; the system, and the
and weights.
• • °"'•

AMCP 7 -202
-_ _ _ _
CONVERTERS RELATIVE TO
GENERATOR
THRLE-PHASE FOUR-PHASE SIX-PHASE
CONVERILR CONVERTER CONVERTER
132 161 194
120 145 170
109 128 145
7-3 BATTERIES
In general, battery selection is based upon battery
characteristics, electrical characteristics of generators
and associated controls, utilization loads, and car-
tain assumptions in unrcraft operations.
7-3.1 BATTERY CHARACTERISTICS
Nickel-cadmium and silver-zinc storage batteries
sybicvis.α.- eiectricai in aircraft used preserntly :ρ
service has particular system electrochemical
excellent cy- exhibits Nickel-cadmium characteristics.
of discharge range α wide output over life and cle
starting systems for is preferred to other rates, and
highest electrical gives the engines. Silver-zinc turbine
is the most volume, but unit weight and output per
life. cycle the shortest batteries and has of expensive
in and is used the systems, oldest of is the Lead-acid
starts. It not requiring main engine helicopter design
conventional electricai cir- is well-adapted to most
discharge rates. lypical cults requiring mcierate
7-2. in Table are listed characteristics comparative
CONTROL GENERATOR 7-3.2
CHARGING BATTERY
Engine-driven generators are subject to variations
in speed in the approximate ratio of 3:1. Thus, α
voltage regulator must be provided in order to main-
speeds. The tain constant voltage at high engine
generator is dropped off the bus by the reverse
current relay at all lower engine speeds, and the
at engine all utilization loads battery must assume
and below the cutoff value. Various generator speeds
voltage regulctor combinations have been designed
speed. idling down to voltage svrctem maintain that
in manner the limited, is current the generator If charged will depend upon the uti- whicih the battery is
time interval. during α specific lization load current
that and upon the state o :barge of the battery in
period.
-7-15