AMCP 706-202
preclude entry contaminants. of the obvious pre- ftmom
Μ WL O Λ use of depth type filters which trap these thread-
IIALI]
filters can screen type than far better particles
PAshaped JET
are mixed, manual signals and the electrical Where ILJTO
used to combine the signals at is mechanism linkage 7α
the master control valvi. The manual signal comes
SWV9
valve appropriate linkage. an through to the directly
C, RECTURNI CYLOC1 LNThe clactrohydraulic valve output flow is directed to
ρ~μ that, through an appropriate small auxiliary α AT-
as can move tht master control valve 'Lucelinkage,
~rnrMciuodirected signal. the electrical by
are relatively simple generally The utility cylinders
sub- of the function the control Sebemate and do not include Fpe9-24. ρ E~ρ* Pip Jo of
rrotectiee 9-2.7.1. Rip-stop
When dual actuators are employed, or two in-
dependent systems are used simultaneously in α flight
Kg cutrepeeceidctstaa σ UTOcotl χ tic oto cutr xmineidctsta aiu H
~ in one system and propagate II failure may origin~ate Ill fl ~ into the other, resulting in loss of both. control If
to manual mo*ι in such α situation, the cannot revert
____
problem can be ***~ helicopter can be lost. This potential
use of the rip-stop tehiuwhich elmntdby
------ requires the use of separate pressure vessels. The
vessls can joined fasteners. brazing, or other be by
9 F1
systems to both causing α fatigue failure ossiblityof
kuyl
state of the art allows use of this β lost Theprescrnt
75fore, technique without significant weight penalty. There-
it shall be used where possible. PETUN
Requirements Testing Endurance 9-2.7.1.2
LAMA
equ ate endurance tests are essential if the Ad Fkctu-
1;fictimic to bc satisfactory. Tw.-o ator is impor- ZAr1-4"
and seals the dynamic are of Flappe Sckemtkc considerations 925 design tant FlIe Elecetro-hydraulk
The vessel. α pressure as actuator the Valve of con"α integrity the
endurance test program foi α rigorous shall provide
test of the basic and detail design concepts. Toward
this end, the usage must be defined in depth, where
test requirements ii, addition to those σ'-ecified in the
desirable, they Specification are Military applicable Π1E.SSURrRETURN
be specified. The additional test may include en- shal
vironmental, operational cycle, and/or prcssure yes-
CONTROL SPOOL impulse testing. sel
Seal Alternatives 9-2.7.1.3
0 Military Standard (MIL-Γ-5514. etc.) rings,
backup rings, and glanJs arc used in dynamic seal
for is required ring backup The applications. NDER TO CVI PASSAG-ES
pressures above 1000-1500 psi, depending upon the
specific application. seal life Frequently, require-
Flgmwe 9-2C. Typicall Master CoatrfA Valve ments are such that special, nonstandard seals are
9415