move δáfficuk to repair. By contrast, welds require
loms sooling aad are repaired more esaily, but are
more prone to melal fatigue because of ths metallur-
gic changc in the weld area.
To roduce pregaure losacs and thus obtain max-
imum efficioncy, the exhaust system should aot make
abrupt croes-sectional changes. Duct bends should be
gradual and an adequate diffusion zugle must be
maintained. les muitiengine belicopters, savings in in-
interchangcabic czhaust ducrs ¿esirablc.
3-2.6.1 Exthannt Ejertors
Engine compartment/engine component cooling is
discussed in pas. 3-6. However, engine installations
requiring positive compastment cooling often use ex-
haust ejecto:σ as air pumping devices. Although
many ejector configurations are possible, two com-
monly are usod for this purposc.
The first configuration provides an annulus for
momentum exchange at the downstream end of the
cxhaust duct. The nacelle that forms the outer surface
of the annulus extends beyond the exhaust duct to
provide an adequate mixing length for this ejector.
Care must be iaken io pieveni damagc io the nacelle
through exhaust gas impingement. High-iempera-
ture liners often arc used in this arca. The exhaust
duct is of conventiona! design, mounted directly onto
the enginc.
The second configuration locates the momentum-
exchange annulus ai the upstream end of the exhaust
duct. the engine serving as the inner ring of the annu-
lus and the duct as the outes ring. This method allows
longer mixing lengths and more precise alignment o:
thc annulus rings, resulting in higher operating eff-
cicncies. Two basic dzsigns are possible. One sepa-
ratcs the exhaust duct from the engine, therety
reducing metal fatigue of the exhaust duct, which is
supporied by the nacelle or airframe structure. The
other uses standoffs to mount the exhaust duct on the
enginc. The latter must be used when the engine in-
stallation requires α exhaust-duct-imposed load to
change engine natural vibration frequencies.
Gererally, the selection of α method for providin:
the necessary cooling airflow will have becn mad:
during preiiminary design. As discussed in AMCP
706-201. par. 8-2.4, this selection requires examina.
tion of the weight penalty and pe ver loss ussociated
with the alternative means. Design cons.derations
pertin-nt to the integration of an exhaust eje.tcr into
ihe cooling system are reviewed in par. ? 6. Includec
are references to design procedures and requiremerls
for design. documentation, and demonstration.
3-2.σ.1 Jafrared (1R) Radiation Fugr Tloloc
If the missions assigned to α belicopter nclur:.: the
3-8

μ ,1 : ;
___
possibility of expoaure to IR seckiag omapuns, aa 1R
radiation suppression subeystam au:υ be ragaired.
The cxsent and type of suppression rrzuisod wil fave
boen de fined by the procuring activiry: aad inctudesf
in the preliminary design. As ciscuppod in Chapter 8,
AMCF N06-201. the IR suppression subuyssa4? 81ay
be α part of the helicopter sr be 8 auparate &it. In
either case, the supprowion of !R sadiazion requime
reducing the temperature of the fcut sourors.
The paragrsphs that follow discue oahy passive
counsermcasures 10 IR weapons. Active counter.
measures also may be requirod but, as discuascci in
Chepter 8. AMCF 706-203, ti.ε qualification of suct
systems by US Army Aviation Systems Command
(USAAVSCOM) is lionited to the interiace brtween
the belicopter and the subsystem.
The principal heat sources are the csgine hot parts.
exhaust duci, and exhaust plume. However. oince
heat sources also may produas significant suxounts of
energy in the 1R frequency band. Tka radiation frons
other sources (χ.γ., heat exchangsr outiets snd solar
reflection from windshiekis) aiso may have to be
reduced to bring the total iR signature of the lseli-
copter within ; escribed limits.
3-2.6.2.1 IR Soppresaioce Requtrestencn
The IR suppression requirements for α new Army
tion. Typically. thc requ'rement will be stated in the
examplc that follows.
IR SUFPRESSION #EQUIREMENT
(ехаmpiе!
The maximum total IR radiavion signature of
the helicopter sholl be suppressed to leveis nci
to exceed σ (2 desirec) Ω/st in the 3-5 micron
bandwidth. The toral 18 radiation signature is
comprised of δ.rect (ι.ε, visible hot metal
parts), indirect or relected, and exhaust piur.se
racsation. Radietion from thr engine and tail-
pipe and from all secondary soutces, such α3
hcat exchangei outlets inrd fuselage areas
washed β; exhanst, are inwiuded. The sup-
pressed IR radiatico signäture requiremrnt:
shall be based upon the Army Hot Day Atmo-
sphere (ι.χ. 125°σ at sea le /χ1) and shal/ apply
witk the enginc operaling at ipternsedigte power
and with the heiicopter at the gross weigh: that
rcsailts in the highest exhause gas temperasure.
The signatar: shall be svaluated at lower hem'σ-
phere. upper hemisphere, and coplanas viewing
argles α-δ the required level of supp:ession
shall apply to the viewing anglt thgt results in
the maximum sigugture.