° LANDING
124 LWST OF SYMBOLS
am, in.' tire - A,
pata
in. diamcier, outsdo - DWt dh in.
TPESCapability GAR • 121
Convewtional helicopter landing gear
tions inchlue wheel, skid. and float. Normally,
configuration desired will have been selected
designer's objective preliminary design. The detail
Stc a type, or combination or types, that verify
'
weight, cost, the beat performance for the least vide
waternance. and The system snecification and
• sion requirerments will influence the selection
the following: specifying
operational The environmental and 1.
cnditions, which will indicate the toughness
cV.Aing r•quirments for tormin tLhe sortd
landing caability water
2. Descent velocities, allowable load factors, and
with weight ground ckrance, which together
location, size, and location, will dictate gear CG
vertical travel
which may require low-drag 3. Purformance,
par, thus requiring a ompac! trtble landing
configuration
and growth factors, 4. Overload conditions
a gear with increased capacity. woid require
in weight, a rule, the skid gear is lighter As
",pIace, a'd expanuavv to ' maA.- a.d
than other types. One disadvantage ku mainweasuc
necessity for special of skid gear is the the
for moving the handling wheel or dollies
method of raising the In addition, a helicopter.
wheels copter to permit imitallation of these
equipment along Some vAicds carry this provided.
weight and theeb safler the additional and
penalties.
taud provides the capability ear Th• whbee
maneuver the tionil control to neoemary
during and as lading on the rod, a well
of pear allows a running In addition, this type
and thus lift additional which provides off,
the event payload in inctease in allowable an
part am absorb •ia The condition. overload
'" car act and also during Iandig impact energy
taxi operations. aishice ovw obstade during
of the helicopter the primnary mission Where
with a o¢er waterways or areas volves flixht

12 CHAPTER
GEAR SUBSYSTEM
of lakes, the use of some type water-landing sear is of
the mission requirements, equired. Depending upon
be could options following the of one seece:
1. A type with full seaplane capability (either
floats or a boat hull) and having little or no land
2. An amphibious type, with either floats or boat
configura- hull plus land gear
the 3. A type with primary water capability, using
during fabric (inflatable) floats that also are capable of being
used for land operations is
pro- 4. type with secondary water A capability. using
water land- that can be inflated for packaged floats
helicopter still desired. With this option, the mis- ings if
by maintains its lauid gear. 1Dcpendin% upon the wea
take off from may or may not be possible to state, it
landing the water.
of ditching capability, 5. A which the helicop- keeps
(although it may be partially submerged) snow or ter upright
Common enough for pcrboroun to evacuatc. long
practice here is to make provisions on the helicopter
then to piovide the to attach the flotation gear and and
mission major portion as kit; thus, if the helicopter a axle
small weight penalty is in- is not over water, only a
or re- cuffed.
for operation from snow- or ice- gear Skis are required
is to maintain the areas. Current practict covered
to adapt the ski to This normal landing gear and which it.
versatility and also im- gives the helicopter a greater
from scraping life by preventing the skis is less proves iki
snow. Bear paws are encot-sintering arcs bare of req"ire when
bog areas, skis and are used in marsh or smaller than
not be or skid gear would where normal wheels ground-
the helicopter weight. capable of supporting inoperative
hili-
mutt be 1 WHEEL GEAR
GC~hl drag 12...1
use: in present gear wheel of types are four There
type or tail wheel 1. The conventions! direc-
with and without The tricycle or nose gear type, hldicopte 2.
tail bumper takeoft.
3. The quadricycle arrangement take-
wheels. outrigger gear with bicycle type 4. The permits
for rollover angles location and recommended an The of
in Figs. are shown gear types amid nose tall wheel the of the
of the require- respectively. Because 12-2, 12-I and as a
from sur- ment for Army helicopters to operate on or
angle 15 slope, the turnover deg faceis with much as as in-
13- be at least 30 (par. deg any direction should number in
"12-1