7. Low fuel quanrtity (20-min warning)
Fuel filter bypass operatins (for each 8.
9., Oil filter bypw opeating (for each filter)
10. Chip detector (engine)
II. Chip detector (accesory section)
I1. Chip detector (transmission)
13. Chip detector gearbox) (tail rotor
14. Engine inlet icing (if applicable)
icing IS. Other detectors (where appropriate)
16. Electrical system faihart (both AC and
Essential I. AC bus OFF
1. Main transmission oil pressure
19. Main transmission oil temperature
20. APU low oil pressure (if applicable)
21. APU high oil tumperature (if applicable)
22. APU rotor speed (low/high) (if applicable)
23. SAS failure
cooter 24. Oil bypas operating
25. Low oil level for each independent oil
sytem
26. Drive system overtorque (if engine rating
sfignificantly higher than drive system),
20-24.3 U Σ Ad'Isry
Advisory should litSht ini.lude, but not be
to, the following information:
I. diengagc AFC5
2. Pilot heat ON
3. Parking brake ON
4. Anti-ice ON (if applicable)
5. External power ON
& Starter ON
7. Rotor brAke (if applicable)
8. APU ON (it' applicable).
j•3 INSTRUMENTS Λ Τ
10-3.1 GENERAL
Helicopter flight instruments are basically
to those of fixed-wing aircraft although frequently
are they optimized or provided with additional
features to make them more suitable for helicopters,
This paragraph dia.ussca preferred arrangements
characterihaics and other for the selection of
copter flignt instruments. The detail specifications
will define when multiple installations art required.
10-3,2 AIR SPEED) INDICATORS
In view of the ability of the helicopter to fly at
low airspeeds, including hover, airspeed indicators
/ suitable for use in fixed-wing aircraft are not -
ceptable for installation in helicopters. Instruments
having increased accuracy in the low-airspeed \
have been qualified, shal and be specified for
\

AMCP 70-202
copter installation. Airspeed systems that are capable
filter) of measuring and displaying both the magnitudz and
direction of the relative wind should considered be
relative when accurate wind data are required to im-
prove weapon or navigation system accuracy, or
when relative wind limitations during hover are
critical.
1033 ALTIMETERS
DC) Barometric altimeters installed in Army heli-
copters be of the countei-drum.puinter con- shall
figuration. Α maximum altitude reading of 30,000 ft
is adequate for use in helicopters. One of the alti-
meters in each helicopter provide encoded alti- shall
tude information to the transponder compatible with
tkl, CONUS air traffic control system.
Sonm mission applications may require an altitude
display that providts an accurate and direct in-
sub- dication of relative altitude or height above the
terrain. In these cams, radio or radar altimeter will
is be specified in addition to barometric altimezeis.
10-3.4 TURN-AND-BANK INDICATORS
The turn-and-bank indicator provides rate of turn,
limited and/or needle and bail sideslip information. in some
cases, the turn-and-bank indicator should be corn-
bined with the attitude indicator. However, the turn
rate gyro and the attitude gyro be provid3δ with shall
independent power sources.
10-3.5 ATTITUDE INDICATOR
The attitude indicator provides the pilot with α
substitute for the real horizon as α rclerence for main-
taining desired aircraft pitch and roll attitude under
all flight conditions. Α typical attitude indicator is the
IND-Α5-UHI. This device is an electrically driven
(400 Hz) 5-in. gyro that is housed in α standard in-
strument case, α size that is preferred fcr ease and ac-
similar curacy of reading and Because interpretation. of the
magnitude of instrumentation required in μ-,., Army
helicopters, the basic attitude indicator #_enerally is
replaced with α mo.ε highly integrated display such
as α vertical situation indicator (VSI). The VSI, if
heli- spocified, provide the following as α minimum: shall
attitAde (pitch and roll), rate of turn, inclinometer in-
formation (slip and skid), FNI homing and station
passage, glide slope, pitch and roll trim, and weak
signal flag alarm. When α flight director system is
very provided, command bars are added to the above re-
suiting in an instrument referred to as an attitude
ac. director indicator (ADI). An example of an ADI
which has been optimized for helicopter application,
range including α coll;ctive pit.η command, is shown in
heli- Fig. 10-1.
10-3