______________AMCP
OVERLOAD PROTECI'ION .7-5Z,
APPLICATION
fuse Α preferred to fuses. breakers arc Circ,.-it
replaced once be its current limit has betrn exceeded,
and replazcement with an improper size or type
Circuit shou~δ grouped possible. breakers in hi.
'of function or usage, and should labeled be by
tion for rapid ieifctn.They should located be
in α protective panel, or covereii so as to eliminate
possibility of hazard to personnel or contamination
by forcign objects. The placement of circuit breakers
in the crew area should avoided. be Or.:υ
necessary in order to maintain safe flight should
accessible to the flight crew, as any malfunction
be corrected prior to reinstating the circuit.
~quirements The installation -. foi fuses and circuit
breakers are detailed in MIL- E-7080.
7-6 ELECT'ROMAGNETIC
(EMI/YMC:) INTERFERENCE
GEENALaffc-;τ 7-61
-
describes (EMC) compati')iity Electromagnetic
electronic/electrical equipment aircraft of the abliity ?
/
environracnits χ;-erational intended in its to perform
without suffering or causing unacceptable δ'fgr~kda-
tion as α result of unintentional electromiagnaetic
ι.ε., electromagnetic or response, radiation
(EMI1). ferenice
or α varying electrical by EMI is generated
netic field. As α result, almost any device carrying
of interference, is α possible source electrical current
cach bubsysterii sysiemn, α weapon within Likewise,
generated interference. In α potential victimn of α
course of qualification of α weapon system, EMIC
response; to interference electrical equipment victim
sources is defined and evaluated. The solution
reducing the magnitude of by control the EMI
or designing the the source, ference, isolating
the EMI. to susceptible be 'ess to ceptor
To achieve α compatible weapon system, the
to environment, fromn intcrcircwit and intersystem
trasystem. must considered following be by
and state-of-the-art engineer- ference specifications
ing designs. The samte results can achieved be
and the best solution depends several mear.σ;
upon the the cognizant angir'eer, and the judgment of
particular time allowance of the budget and
"~plication.
JThis
procedures the design outlines paragraph
EMI levels. In, the determinatioai of acceptable
of sources of interference tion, the identification

706-202
possible methods of compatibility correction or al-
leviation are disacussed.
REQUIREMENTS ACCEPTABILITY 7-6.2 must
Unacceptable equipment responses to EMI levels
aural, video, is are exhibited as or equipmenit mal-
order functions. In cases, negative aural can sonme response
indicates func- be acceptable if testing that it does not af-
feet overall mission capability or ilight safety.
the EMC tests are required to demonstrate control of
the electronic intesrference environment. The detailed
requirements for these tests be specified in the shall
those contracto. σ control and test plan. See par. 9-li1
be AMCP 706.203, for α discussion of the helicopter
must system NIMC demionstrationi requirements.
ý'ν τ~sting certoin equipment for example, ord- -
riaoice φ!.ýρ u7 efss`rabic response, it is neccasary to -
itwwuý 'the systemr functions within α wide safety that
mo*'gin. Mib~τ.ýfry requirements state that an inter-
ferev.-ε sigrei impressed upon the most critical point
dB (20 -dB for 6 α subsy'ptem must at least be of
level that would cause an un- explosives) below !he
equipment that directly of dcsirif~χ resnonee. Items
flight safety, or thut cause or lead to α uisa:--
de- arc α mission, accomplish tc~ or to failure abort
in- iss tests margin safety for the factcis termining
in MIL-E-6051. dicatcd
7-.INEFR CES CFCAOS
7-. INEFRNEPCFCTIN
tests that stfficient Military Specifications require inter-
to insure or weapon systems of equipment made be
they are compatible mag- that
applicable to the Spocifications and standards
necessary to and test procedures design reqaiiremenr~σ
of θ.- electroniý controll is sk onvironmpnt ;nt~rfPr~nrCC
NhilL-I MILLE-6031, helicopter are Mll.-Β-5087, thec
and hilL- MIL-STD-454, MIL-STD-461, 16165,
STD-462. Iii gentral, the most current spocification
is to in force will the controlling factor for quuli- be EMC
inter- fication.
re-
SOURCES INTER4FERENCE 746.4
interference originates from either entire Electromagnetic
in- natural or rnantrade~ sources. Natural sources include
and lightning dis- inter- atmrospheric, precipitation, corona,
EMI varies randomly with chargec noise. Natural
operations, and seasonal time, geographical area of by
affects τ type of interference generally upon conditions. Thi-
band. range in the low-frequiency α broad frequency
broadband or EMI are either Manmade sources of ap-
evaluated be narrowband generators, and they must
separately. bandied for and
diatributes energy over α addi. Broadband interference
frequency spectrum, and can either random be and wide
7-21