)
and control surfac-σ, sensors, and adjacent -tores
The dign and location of the launcher installation
should be such as to minimize corrosive effects
resulting from the exhauit particles inherent to solid
propellant missiles. Prc,,per -insideration of nm-
ventive or corrective methods, including cleansing of
affected parts, can reduce significantly the possibility
of structural cirrosion or surfac- damage caused by
motor exhaust. In general, missile launchers should
bc locaked as far as possible from other parts of the
aircraft.
142.2.2 Structual Cearams
Adequate structural clearance be provided tc shall
prevent interference of the missile (including fins)
with any part of the helicopter (including adjacent
stores) during launch of the missile. Α clearance cone
of 3 deg half angle, measured from the missile longi-
tudinal centcl-ine at the exit port, is an example.
Definition of clearance should include consicdera-
tion of the aerodynamic forces acting upon the nis-
sile at laurch. These forces can cause significant vari-
ations in the missile pitch and yaw motion, and in the
iin,.ρ displacement, during the launch phase. Suffi-
cient ground clearance be provided to prevent shall
"launcher ground contact during normal takeoffs and
landings, and during hard landings at maximum
gross weight.
14-2.2.3 Blast Protecic
The heficopter designcr pr# -ide strength shall
and/or surface protection for helicopter structure
and exposed subsystems that is adequate to protect
them from ν,;ssile exhaust ,ffects. These effects in-
clude overpressure, heat, recoil or reaction loads, ero-
sion, and corrosion resulting from normal repetitive
firin•γ. Details of these characteristics will be available
in τ-ei weapon specification
14-2.2.4 Acceslbillty
Maximum accessibility be provided to the shall
launching mcchanismn, tubes, detente, firing con-
tacts, and electrical connections to facilitate loading,
unloading, circuit checking, diagnosis of malfunc-
tions, clearing of stoppages, partial disassembly while
in place, viewing of all dials and gage marks, accom-
plishmert of all adjustments with the appropriate
tools, cleaning, and replacement. Minimum mainte-
nance and turnaround times are α primary considera-
tion. Other guidelines pertinent to this topic are con-
tained in Chapters I1 and 13, AMCP 706Ω201.
14-2.2.5 Firing Circuit Testing
Th-. designer should provide α self-cortained firing

-MCP
circuit tester, or α single-point elecrial quick-
disconnect. in the indi,'idual missile contact cinrdt
which is suitable .ρ me with an eVterna circuit
tester.
14-2.2.6 Jefttlamng
The launcher installation include provisions shn
for jettisoning the unit from the aircraft turder all
norm-, flight sde- conditions, including undetected
slips. Launch structure shculd be designed for com-
patibility with power jettisoning per MIL-Α4591.
The anle at which the ;auncher is ejected be AaU
selected to provide clearance with the airframe, and-
ing gear, and adjacent stores.
14-2.2.7 Effects of Aircraft Mauemwus
Structural design of the missile launcher installa-
tion consider the effects of loads imposed by shall
maneuvers of both the missile and tht !urim-aft.
142.2.1 Types of Imtallatmion
The launcher installation should provide for effec-
tive missile deployment in specified tactical situationE
associated with α particular misile confvigr-rinn.
Factors affecting selection of the launcher configura-
tion are launcher size and weight, helicopter speed
and altitude environment, and ground-handling and
loading requirements. For helicopter applications,
the launcher γ.-erally vill be α fixed installation
located on α wing or armament pylon, and may iu-
clude either α zero or α finite launch length depending
upon the missile characteristics.
14-2.2.9 Loadlng
The missile launcher should be designed to facili-
tate fast loading during ground operations. The
loading process should require α minimum number of
precise locating and positioning operations by the
awmament mechanics.
14-2.2.10 Aerodynamic Effecto
Effects of local airflow conditions upon thc initial
missile flight path can be significant, and be con- shall
sidered during the launcher derign task. Immediately
upon release from the launcher, the missile is exposed
to aero6-,namic forces that tend to displace it from its
intended flight path. Missile response is affected by
launch velocity, guidance syztem operation during
the launch phase, and control surface effectiveness at
the !aunch speed.
14.4-.11 Ssipenslo Retentioa mand
Suspension and retention omponents include the
equipment used to attach the launcher to the air-
'4-7