The designer must examine carefully even thft
saion and shear joints to minimize any eccentricities
deflections that would cause unfavorable an
bution of stresme in the joint. For example, a
lap shear joint under load, if rot restrained, will
aergo a doflection that causes high concentratiop.,
at Points stress and 2 I as iliustrated in Fig.
The designer should keep ii. mind that joints
uniformly distributed shear tension jo#,1ts o:
goal, and then should apply coa-mon sense Sdesign
achieve this goal. Such a common-sense approach to
UNLOADED (A)
2
j 4 - "the
LOADED ~(S) LOADEbe 5
K --
I'ý. V
FIre 17-9. Defl•caic LUp Suhr. ,oeit
Led Umnde
" " POIT SP
., A.;
BALANCE BAR KEEPER
Fiure 17-10. Ty~lcal
: SPAR
Fi"ure 17-11. Typical

PACP 70)0
ten- a joint design problem is iliustiated in Fig. 17-10. The
or spar of the rotor blade might be consideied to be a
redistri- rigid member. Aif loads acting upon the section aft
simple create a bending moment that tends to pry, or peel,
in- the lightweight skins away from the inside of 'he spar
of at Point A. Therefore, a "keeper" channel that gicat-
17-9. ly rigidizes ths portion of the structurc is iticorpo-
wish rated, permitting the joint between the. skin and spar
are a to ract the bending moment through a shear couple.
to Another typical rotor blade design is shown in Fig.
17-11. Again, there is a tendency for the skin to peel
from the spar. In this case, the skin deflectinns that
would aggravatc, the peel situation are prevented by
the incorporation of a simple angik (A).
The design of adhesive-bonded joirts aemands the
proper mating of parts with regard to dimension and
com- aohesive-joined that imperative It is toleranc.
ponents fit each other without relying upon the ad-
hesive to hold them in the proper shape. Where
overall external dic.cnsions are critical, it is nocessary
to account for the thickness of the cured bond lines in
finai assembly. A reasonable thickness allowance
per bond line is in., U.005 although this value should
determined specifically in each case for the pa.,-
ticular adhesive and method cf manufacture.
In the came of honcyconmb-sandwich structures, no
is made for adhesive between the honey- allowance
comb core and the face sheets. The cells of the honey-
comb cut through the film of adhesive completely,
j SKI AFT N
CHANNEL
nlotor Blade Design - I Alternate
Rotor Design Blade - Allernane 2
17-13