τ .. . . xt ,7 * ,, -, . -0
AMCP 20
rotor gearboxes each feature α sih0lc spiral bevel and simply to achieve longer life of drive system cor-
two planetary reduction stages with final output At ponents. Sufficient cycles will be accumulated at the
230 rpm. Thaccessori¶ arc located service all at the aft 5-mirn rating during the life of the drive sub-
main rotor gearbox and consist of oil cooler bir.wcr, system to require the same bendiutp fatigue gear
two gciucrators, and two hydraulki pumps. design, ι.ε., infinite life, as would required be for α ckctrical
continuous ratig at the same red-line limit.
4-11.23 Compomi HICellOpl Drive Systems Although α 5-min drive system rating does not usual-
Compound helicopters arc those that use cuxiliary ly impair the operatianal capability of α helicopter
propulsion devices other than the main liftng rotors with α typical speed-power relationship (Fig. 4-17),
I in the forward flight mode. The majority of such current Army specifications include α continuous
- designs have featured α single main lifting rotor, an drive sytem rating. Α typical requirement would be α Λ
tither antitorque rotor, and turbojet engines or shaft- continuous rating of the main transmnission equal
driven propellers for auxiliary propulsaon. either to 120% of the power required to hover out-of- ι'
The only compound helicopter to undergo ground-effect (HOGE), zero wind, at the density alti-
development test or Army use has been the AH-56. tude defined by 4000-ft pressure altitude and 950F, or
It was powered by α single 3450-hp engine driving to 100% of the intermediate power rating of the
into directly the main rotor gearbox. Α spiral bevel engine(σ) at sea level and 95°F. The effects of power
gear stage, α compound planetary, and α simple selection ratings upon life, overhaul, and of standards
planetary provide the reduction gearing for the main are discussed in the paragraphs that follow.
rotor. Α spur takeoff located at the engine input to
tuteatleo, Power/Wfe 4-13.1 shaft running along drove α gearbox the main rotor
the top of the tailboon,. This shaft drove the pusher The mechanical failares of interest to the drive sub-
propeller at the ead of the tailboom directly; and system designer usually exhibit α definite relationship
through α 90-deg shaft angle spiral bevel gear set also between life and power. The life-limiting failure mode
drove the antitorque rotor. Accessories were mount- of primary concern for α developed and serviceable
ed at the main rotor gearbox and consise.δ of two hy- gearbox is pitting or spa,:,iig of the gears and
draulic pumps and α high-speed generator. bearinbs (par. 4-2.1). However, the life/power re-
lationship for this mode of failure is not reckoned
"4-1.3 TRANSMISSION DESIGN AND RATING with easily due to the many tacters that govern the
CHARACTERISTICS
['I
All elements, components, and subassemblies of .41! - 1_ the transmission and drive system are subject to
- varying degrees of wear, abuse, fatigue, and other en- 35')-
- - - vironmental hazards. many instances, ,tandard In
components will provide acceptable performance for _00 I..__ κ
α given drive system design at α savings in cost, ease C0- Τ- 2
specially designed components. However, the • 0'•-" 5
designer must have α thorough understanding of the .
likely failure modes o; standard components (pars. 4-
." life- ow life-load pertinent the and 4-2.2) and 2.1
enviromrment reldtionships.
I 5Δ limit for torque input an to specify customary It is -
α helicopter main rotor gearbox. Indicated to the ,
pilot by α torquemctcr red-line, this limit may be
lower than the sea-level-standard rating of the engie~σ.._ ) GROSS Τ DESIGNj - -
engine(σ). -MAX. GR Ω ALT.
Depending upon such factors as helicopter type .. .
and design mission, the red-line torque usually is
specified as α continuous rating, or, in rare instances,
α 5-min rating. Α 5-min limit may be specified for , 0o ISO 90 6 210 ISo 120 operation •energency only. Α time limit is imposed AIRSPft.. ki
because sufficient cooling capacity is not available for
extended operation, lubricants may be degraded, or Figure 4-17. Typical Speed-Power Function
4-25