24
13-32.6 Treop Jawp Siguai Ligit
As defined in MIL-Λ-6503, when roguircd 5υ the
procuring activity, ε troop jump signal light shall te
providod.
13-3.2.7 Warming. Camion, and Advisory Lights
The warning, caution, and advisory lighting system
is iscussod in Faur. 10-2.2.
13-3.2.8 Iestrumant Panel Ligheing
Instrument panel lighting is discussed in par. 10-2.
13-3.2.9 Cargo Compartmeat Ligating
Cargo compartment lighting should consist of, at
ths minimum, two rows of Slush-monntod ceiling
floodlights locetod along the ruges of the ceiling. It
also is advisable to provide externat ligntirg in the
general area of the ramr and other doorways, to
facilitate night loading and cnhance safety. Α row of
lights along the base of the side walls provides the il-
lumination required for the rigging of tiedowns on
vehicle frames and undercarriage.
134 CARGO PROVISIONS
134.1 INTERNAL CARGO
The pr ovisions of this paragraph are applicable to
helicopter: having an all-cargo or combined
cargo/passenger-carrying miesion, with the cargo
carriod wit!in α fuselage compartment or within α
pod scparats from the basic halicoptes airframe.
Baggage comparunenta, incidental cargo provisions,
and equipment stowage bins shouid conform to the
cargo compastmont dasign criteris wherever pos-
sibic.
Army cargo can be groupod into two ciasses. Class
À cargo includes unpacked items and loose boxes
smaller than α 3-ft cube which can be restrained by α
net or similar device. Class Β cargo includes largei,
singlo-unit loads such as vchicles, artillery, and fuel
barrels, which are secured individually within the
cargo compartment. Incidental cargo, which falls
into noither class, inclujes items such as spare parts.
flight bags, or mission-oriented equipment carried
onboari by passengers — ε.γ., tool kits. ammunition
boxcs, and weapons.
13-4.1.1 Cargo Cocapartmcot Λ.syout
The basic envelope dimensions of the cargo com-
partment are cstabliahed carly in the preliminary
design process. The detail dosigner must keep the
vasious belicopter structural end mechanical com-
Ponents from intruding into this envelope es the
qign develops. Compartment walis and ceilings

AMCP 706-202
must remain unobstructed; even α minor protrusion
can docrease the usable cargo voiume considerabiy.
Any structures or components which project un-
avoidably into the compartment must be marked
conapicuously. In all caces, the protruding com-
from cargo and vehicles.
With the overcll dimensions of the cargo floor de-
termined by preliminary design, the cargo tiedown
points can be locatod. Thesc points must be arranged
in α basic 20-in. grid pattern. Such α grid patiern has
been standardized internationally (ÄFSC DH 2-1)
and is shown in Fig. 13-6.
The requirement thai cargo tiedown fittings be
located on 20-in. centers must be considered carly in
the structural decign process, since this is α major fac-
tor in the location of fuselage frames (sec Chapter
11).
Helicopters which have the capability of haul:ng
vehicies should have -trengthened treadway areas on
thc floor, locatod to coincide with the wheci iocations
rn ε
the heiicopier. This subjact is discusscd in Chapter
11.
The main cargo door should have sn aperture
equa! to ths size of the cargo compartment, with the
door sil on the same plane as the floor. Forwa.δ or
aft doors should open cicar of the extended wail and
ceiing planes, to permit straight-in loading of the
highest load which will fit into the compartment. In
addition to the main doos, at least one smalier, socon-
dary door shvuld be locked at tne upposite erd of
the cargo compartment, to allow acass when the
compartment is filled witn cargo. If the secondary
door ι- on ths side of the fusciage, it shouid be
located on the right-hand side of the helicopter to
facilitate the pilot'σ surveillance of loading
operations.
If required for α cergo hoist (Chapter 11). α hatct:
at least 30 in. squate should be located on the center-
line of the floor, at the approximate location of the
helicopter CG.
13-4.1.2 Detall Deiga
The cargo floor should be sufficicntly flat and
smooth to insure that boxcs and fabric containers can
be slid across the floor without being snagged or
damaged. Tiedown fittings, floor panel fasteners, and
scat/litter anchor studs must be flush wich or recessed
belov floor level. Tiodown rings which cannot be in-
stalled flusin wich the floor must be made removabie
when not in ust. Since they present α storage probiem
and at: geucial inconvenieace, removabic tiedown
rings shouid be considered only as α last rcsort.