reflections and currents in airframe. crows the The of
polarized represents an component inefficiency or
power loss, and is α consideration when selecting
antenna lcamtion.
,'The effocts of tribotlectric (friction) charging
fluence the selection of antenna location. The
copter airframec and nearby antennas are cha-
electrostatically the by rotor downwash, and voltagat
high enough to produce corona can result. The
ona will occur on ahaip points. or on points of
electrical stress concentration. these If arcas are
antennas, oi are electromagnetically coupled
antennas, the broadband noise generatod the by
on: will introduced into be die receiver.
Antenna location must insure that die antennas
decoupled from each other; this is practicable for
tennits operating in the same frequency range.
Mutual coupling between antennas affects-their
pedance and the radiation patterns individual of
ments. High voltages can introduced be in passi-ic
cuits if excessive mustual coupling exiists between
transmitting and receiving antennas.
Dcvelcpment of helicopter antennas depcnds
~~~~~~.ne ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ρ~ne θ.~ oA~. yp.,.,.,,.α
When employed with MIL-Α-25730. discretion,
usc of scale models for antenna development
vides the ability to predict suitability the ot unsuit-
ability of an antenna location. Usually, the model
technique is used on lar~ge prototype aircraft with
model scald down to 1/20θ to facilitate manipu-
lation. The scale factor is variable, and any scale
tor maky be used provided that the resultant
sain the by upward "ca.id be mumt (which quencies
scale factor) are easily obtainablu.
Frequencies in the Sgigahertz regpion are not easily
scale. In addition, frequencies in the HF region
often are not scaled. On 1/20-scale α model at
MHz, for example, tht; model frequency must be
MHz and thesw two frequencies inherently propa-
gate differently. Theory is quite logical for
models, but care must taken to be scale every detail
affecting; antenna performance. For example, caling
wire size in order to maintain identical current
tributions must considered. The be model must
isolated from its surroundings, and consideration
must be given to ground reflection& and to radiation
from connecting cables.
The model measurcineats ame made in the scale
dimensions and for orthogonal polarization.
radiation patterns arm measured over the scaled
quency range operation, of for varying positions
the rotor and for different antenna locations. The
timumn location of the antenna with respect to radia-
tion patterns will result from these measurements.
8-12

im-K., Measurement impedance of mutual and
α pedanoc is accomplished easily on tho beli- most
the copter although α full-sc~ale mock-up, containing
those portions of the helicopter within wave- several
in- lengths of the antatnna, gives accurate results. AD
heli- model measurements must verified be on full-scale
god aircraft. This technique is analogous to aeodynamic-
model testing in wind & tunnel.
cor- present The range requiruanent for VHF-FM corn-
having high munication 10-Ω power α output to non- α
on matching antenna is 40 mi. This is α reasonable rang
to when tested in the optimum condition.
cor- When an antenna is to used over wide be α firequen-
cy rangt, ι.ε., VHF-FM Mliz, 30-76 it must he
are broadband if efficient operation is to the If result.
an- transmitter/receiver mismatch is not too U great,.
VSWR, reasonable efficiency will result. the Voltage -ý
im- Standing Wave Ratio, it the criterion for acceptance
of antenna ele- matching; it is determnined the ratio of by
cir- forward to reflected power. The Radio Technkca
Commission for Aeronautics (RTCA) aW chowe α
VSWR of 5:1 as an applicable standard. However, α
upon more stringent ratio is required in many came. Comn-
.hst.,,Λ4 α VQlWA anta.,,na ι ,~trn hows-~ Aff Α-1 I
the o. and trnusponder less. TACAN antennas should
pro. have α VSWR of 2.3:1 or VSWR is less. compla. ok (
ratio of incident powtv to reflected power as given by'-
Eq. 8-I.
the I Reflcted Powur
Forward wr
fac- VSWR :τ 5 10χ
- freiv*~os
o~ ored
".3j IOA711rON AND INSTALLATION OF'
ANTENNAS
In most casta, thot types of antennas mveral
15 that can be used for gliven item of communication any
30 or navigational equipment. and final choice the Is de-
pendent upon the requirements of the specifkicn-
stallation. For additional information governing an- scale
tenna installation and location, see MIL-STD477.
During design the initial phase, incorporation of
dis- system zero-drag or flush-mounted antennas must be
be considered. It is extremely important to submerge the
antennats, not only for increased flight efficiency, but
also to minimize maintenanov problems.
In mos τ case space limitations prevent the location
of antennas far away from~ one another.
The Specifications usually require α three-eighiths wave-
ir length separation, but this unrealistic; therefore fre-
of separation to the greatest de~.me possible should be
op- made. An alternative solution is the multi;1sage Of α
single antenna, with passive devices added to aid in
multiplexing. An excellent example of this usage is α