706-)20 APMP
without tem. be removable The wheels must
part of the or any of struts ring the removal
structure. Near
with accordance be in will provisions Towing
STD-40.
mooring pro- must include structure airframe The
rings for attachment of lup or visions consisting
fittings are cables, the fines. Whare or ropes. μ-oring
bave suffient clearance reosed, they must
position. from the recessed extension for easy
on adjacent exterior sur- ,iyll appear word "moor"
the fittings are used, faces. If detachable
in the baggage provide for dieir storage should
"tool used gear is not landing If the compartment.
fittings of the engine(σ), runup during restraint
during this maximun' Joad imposed withstand twe
installed, When shi be provided. ground operation
be marked with the statement: these fittings will
runup during ground here harness tach restraining
structural airframe for requirements Design
II. Chapter in discussed are
GEAR LANDING 15-!2 SUBSYSTEM
Σ
units of the ianding par u; shuuld AD
lubrication, and inspection, servicing, for
servicing should permit easy ment. All air valves
removable Sear is used, easily When retractable
exposed equipment covers should installed on all be
guards should Mud and scrapers within the wells.
and readily without remcval, easily cleanahk-
for tire servicing. movable
The attachme points for the landing Sear must it
and removal, easy installation designed to permit
that require should include locks tractable systems
inspoction are acoessible for adjustment, and
of the actuating out requiring disasembly
the retracting system. of
should system Each in α retractable Sear
quick-release, installed, lightweight, manually
of this lock or pin The design ground-safety
of incorrect eliminate the possibility should
as The designed so pear should be stallation.
is not if manual unlocking retract or be damaged
Α red warning before flight. complisbed
to indicate with the lock pin should be included
place. in is lock the
154
'τ"

on rach main be provided requi- lug should Α tiodon
pinuit corn- lug. should These Sgar leg. landing landing
absorber to α position beyond the shock pression of
hboi- the point when static deflection normal the MIL-
is moored. copter
the design minimize should pear The landing
servicing equipment, or tools, for special requirement of
appropriatoly. marked pads should be Jack fittings.
α as gear re- not to be is the landing If space used
engine(σ). runup of ground member duiing straining The
accordance with shall conspicuously, in it be marked
use for the statement: "Do not with design MIL-Μ-25047,
ground runup of restraining helicopter during or
engine(σ)". for
considerations are. gear discussed design Landing to
12. in Chapter
"At-
STATIONS 15-13 CREW or
air- for included provisions design all general, In design
for necessary arc also controls of actiation crew
clearances ground sufficient scivicin5. Additionally,
In- and maintenance. for operation required are
have all pro- should ternal cargo compartments
- •1 _ ." •
mAumav, marPTIL conU iCuUouy avuiu puimu, Lu U113sioa1σ
Cargo cornm- and unloading. during loading replace- damage
__ α positive open easily, have doors should partment
in- and provide minimum of remaining open, means
and unloading operations. terferenec with loading
are in- cargo-carrying provisions Whee external be
cluded, rc- un- should facilitate loading and their design
internal and external Designs for loading opera:ions.
be cargo-handling capabilities should permit standard
be to used. material-handling equipment Re-
crew for helicopter The desigr requirements no
discussed in and equipment are stations, furnishings, with-
members Chapttr 13.
α have
AND ARMOR, ARMAMENT, 15-14
SYSTEMS PROTECTIVE device
in-
these mission- requirements for to interface design not
14. GSE in Chapter systems are containod ac- csentiml
in com- the spocific arc included ".nsiderations streamer
and are no! and requirements, modity specifications when
herein. included