larger paws, and have α lower than bear
pressure, longer nose section, and α greater α
to-width ratio. Landing static load versus gear
table ski-bearing prosutre ar shown in Fig. data
7.
Nvt.τ the main gear has α higher that
than bearing pressure do the nose or tail gear.
tendency of pilots is to for the ground, or feel
~tail down, when operating tail wheel hlidcolpter.
increases the effective tail ski load. α As
relative to the main gear static load, α lower
pressure required to stay above the snow is
must react the dynamic. loads The nose gear
drag and friction by forces at the main and gear,
α lower bearing prosaure is necessary to keep the
from ski submerging in the snow. comparison~ Α
typical missions indicates that lightc. vehicles
α greater mobility than does α heavy cargo
ter. This is evidenced by the lower bearing
found to acceptable be for helicopters with lower
static loads.
Limited available experience indicates that
bearing pressure of approximately psf-, ?50
- ... τ .,.; Λ -- bearing pressure for paws bear for soft-woil
should not exceed 1500 pet (approximataly 10
The length-to-widtb ratio of skis is not of great
portance at the low forward speeds encountered
helicopter operations. ratio Α of 2.5:1 χ rrently ,
use for helivopters. On snow-covered terrain, α
4ERN
/
PRESSURE,
35 OF. lb/:Ω
/ -0
/Z
u~2 /
0
2 Ω''OO lb/ft 0
________________RESTRAINING
0
12 0
ft TRACK DEPTH. SKI
1~no ι rakDepth 124. bmw Δ"Μ we na
12-10

bearing ning landing at least kt is required to speed of 15
enable length- the pilot to maintain clear of vision α field by
keeping the helicopter in front of the blizzard createdI accep-
12. the rotor downwash. by
Ski friction is due to compacting of the snow
allowable (which can vary greatly with the moisture content or
The density of the snow) and sliding 'riction. coeff- Α
hall land cient of friction of 0.25 for landing coa- apply
This ditlons and α coefficient of 0.40 &Ω1λ for apply
result, ground-handling conditions (NIIL-Α-Μ62).
bearing The relation between snow depth and ski track
surface. depth is presented in Fig. 12-8.
caused
thus 12-1.4.2 Imstalladua
nose Current practice to adapt is skis to the standard
of wheel arrangement. The tire is allowed to protrude
require through an opening in the ski in order to permit land-
helicoo- ing on hard-packed snow and it-ε. This permits the
pressures tire to absorb some of the landing enegy that other-
gear wise would be transmitted through the ski. This
design also pernits ground maneuvering of the hell-
above α copter to work that normally arma cleared Are of soft
ski snow.
.ρ aj.,.he ihawWist -- allim. Mnntme.- sv.uj nr .I .Λ gmt
operation tion with α honeycomb or wood balsa core. long Α
ps!). planing nose (Fig. 12-9) keeps the ski from diggng
im- into the snow during landings involving foward
in speed. The aft portion asoe is raised upward.
is in although~ to α degive, lesser to permit rearward move-
run- meat over snow or other obstacles without digging in
or snagging. Replaceable chafing strips may be at.
tahdW to the. bottom of the ski to protect it Guom
ground contacts the if it damaged arnd scraped being
surfaces. snow-dleared on or taxiing landing while
pedestal rat~ings thtpstintsi Μ U KUU 553 hi-la
wheel and permit pivoting of the ski above or below
its normal horizontal position, thus allowing it to
follow the terrain without imposing high loads on the
ski or gear structure. Fore and aft cables with
drag at minimize to flight ski in the pusation adjusters
cruising speed. Cables are attached above the sho-κ
upon coutpresses oleo the as slack and become strut
CABLE
3
LENGTH CONTACT BEARING
Figre Cenfiguratla 11-9. Ski