AMCP 706-202
force of 100 1β; 3/8-in., 250 1β; 1/2-iπ.. 500 lb: and 1-
in., 2500 16.
Self-tappieag screw thread inserts aro hard bushings
with internal and externa! threads. They often are
used in nonferrous castings. Hclice!, diamond-shaped
coils of stainless stecl with phesphor bronze inserts
often are used to repais old, threac:δ holas.
There are many Military Specificetions dealing
with ps ticular typ-σ of scr*vs, including MIL-STD-
9 and Μ3Λ-Σ-7742. Additional date wili be found in
Chaptcr 8, MIL-HD8K-5. Pins, such &σ cotter pins are used to socure nuts (Α) TENSION
upon bolts, or upon othes pins and fasr eners. Cotter
pins may be obtained for hole cizes of 3/6σ to 3/4 in.
The extended-prong type is sccured in place most
casily. Clevis pins (ANSI Β5.20-1958) frequently are
usead : σ lock bolts and may be sccured with * cotter
pin. Dowel pins (ANSI Β5.2) 1958) arc used either to
retains parts in α fixed position or to preeerve align- ment. They normally are subject to sbearing stizin (Β) SHEAR
Ouly at the junction cf the two parts being held, and
two usually ere sufficient. For parts thet frequently
are disugsembled, the taper dowes is preferred. This
type also is preferred for joints of close tolerance.
Pine having diomstere os 1/8 to 3/16 in. are σ9tis-
fuctos" in inost cases.
When soft parts are to be joined, the hole shouid be
about O.001 in. smaller rhan the pin. For . locking fit,
3 lungitudinally grooved pin is preferred.
17-4.Α ADHESIVE BONDING — STRUCTURAL
In order to realize the maximum benefits of sdhe-
sive bonding. & structure muet be designed initially TTT77
with this method of joiniug in mind. The first requi- site is an understanding of the basic loading con- (C) CLEAVAGE
ditions to which γ bonded joint may be subjecled. In
che past structural spplications of adhesives were
based on tension, shear, cleavage, and peel (as illu- Ξ
strated in Fig. 17-8). These criteria resulted ι.ν the
deveiopment of adhesives that met purely structurai
applications basrd on design loads. Today. adhe-
sives not only must meet these requirements but alsc
must include resistance lo environmental conditions
experirnces in cur:ent adhesive specifications for resistance to moistun . snetration under load (en- () PELL
vironmental cyclic crzep) and under dynaic load. (fracture mechanics and fetigue). Thesc include ten- Figue 17-8. Typrs of Losdiag for Bonded Jolate
sion, shear, ciravage, α.. poel, as iliustrated in Fig.
17-8. cause faiiure in the cieavage or πæel sitsation (Figs.
An iGcal structur.! joint is Cuc in which the load is 17-8(C) snd 17-8(Δ)) may β: deacribod as tensile
distribuvad as buiformly as is possible over che entir. σ*resees, ihey ave concentratod heavily ir local regions
bondec area. This condition most ncerly is ap- of the joins: thus, the load capabilicy of Ihe joint is
ee ε unrelatac to ti:ε total bonded aree. Thercfore, poel
(Figs. 17-8(Α) and 17-8(Β)). While :be uresses that and clcavage situstions sbould be avoidri.
17-12