AMCP 706-202
but their exeleknt dielvctri: characteristics also
introduce serious static electricity problems. The
dielectric strength of the painted surface permits
buildup of 5000 to 50,000 V from friction charging
the surface, which may be followed by puncture
the base metal and accompanied by an energy
least in tens of joules. This can cause precipitat'on
static or streamer radio interference, and - if
paint is covering an elcctiical component. such as
engine inlet heating grid also can result in a -
circuit of the element. This often is followed by
up, as a result of energizing of the initial spark by
power system, with resultant major damage.
Possible internal problems with high-quality
electrics include the charging of fluid lines from
liquid flow and the charging of painted internal
tank walls from spray electrification or sloshing.
7-9.2 LIGHTNING F OTECTION FOR
ELECTRONIC SUBSYSTEMS
helicopter for protection of lightning designer The
use make maximum should electronic subsystems
purposes. skin for shielding frame and metallic the
Specific protection, or lightning-resistant lightning
at the major lightning should be provided designs,
These include main rotor and tail try points.
pitot-static lights, antennas, nrvigation blades,
active electrical probe discharger heads, and
other electrical -omponents exposed on the exterior
In of the helicoptcr. addition, because of the general-
reduced ly shielding of helicopter frames and
(compared with fixed-wing aircraft), greater
siderations and must be givan to magnetic electrical
field penetrations into the vehicle interior.
Where all other factors are roughly equal, it i'
visable to use mechanical primary flight controls
engine and rotor controls and to use the electronic
systems prin-arily for trim or management controls.
Electronic surge suppressors of various types, such
gas or zener diodes and simple capacitors, may
used on critical circuits for suppressing the residual
surgc voltage (which can penetrate despite the
ternal lightning protection design), particularly
electronic systems require very-low-voltage
tection.
In summary, the preventive design approaches
I. Principal lightning protection efforts should
directed toward blocking electromagnetic energy
trance through electroma.gnetic windows such
navigation lights and antennas,
S. flight systems for primary of electronic Use
trols Use should be avoided. should extend only
trim or management.
3. suppressors Surge should be used where
7-30

can required, eith(r because of large surge voltages that
high cannot be reduced at the entry point low- or for
the signal-level circuits that require low-level protective
of devices.
of 4. Simple lightning test facilities should be used to
re- permit quick evaluation of component performance.
Untested lightning protection designs often have
the proved to be not only ineffective, but sometimcs
an more dangerous than the components they were in-
short tended to protect.
burn- Lightning protection through geometrical con-
the figuration control of external components, such as
antennas and navigation lights, has proven to be one
di- of the most effective methods of preventing lightning
the penetration into the aircraft. For example, tests of
fuel navigation and cofision light designs have shown
1-in.change that a in a cover screw position can re-
duce the resultant lightning damage from total de-
struction of the element, with major energy pene-
trations into the vehicle interior, to negligible physi-
re- voltage pulse amplitude in resulting damage cal
Thus, geometrical volts. few hundred to a of 4;uctions
lightning pro- for external components of all control
itc most economicai ap- purpubcz is gcncraiiv ivt;6iun
entry en- and cost. Typical in terms of weight proach,
shown in rotor points requiring protection design effort are
7-16. Fig. tubes,
any Earlier HF and UHF antennas of the voltage-fed
type constituted one of "he princip~t electromagne',-
windows through which lightning energy could enter
skins the vehicle interior. To offset a possible total electri-
con- cal system loss, these units often can be replaced with
shunt-fed antennas, grounded which are inherentl)
designs in which the lightning energy essentially is
ad- channeled into the external vehicle skin, with only re-
as sidual high-,oltage, low-energy pulses entering the
electronic systems. HF lightning arresters are avail-
able commercially for HF antennas. ttid their ef-
as fectiveness in preventing bothi structural and radio
be equipment damage has been demonstrated in their
use on commercial jet airliners during millions of
ex- flight hours.
if the Other external components, such as pitot-static
pro- heads and active discharger probe heads, require
typical electronic system protection approaches. The
are: pitot-static heads can be protected effectively by con-
be ventional electrical system protective devices such as
en- zener diodes or gas diodes; however, the high-voltage
as active discharge probe heads require more extensive
protection development because of high operating
levels. voltage con-
electrical to For surge suppressi n, mac:y types of de-
vices are available commercially - including zener
diodes, gas tubes, simple capacitors, spark gaps, and