Provision must be msde for the inevitable damage
which will occur occasionally to the Boor duriag
loading oporations. The Boor should be divided into
panols that can bo replocod readily during organi-
zational maintenance. If it is rot posible to make the
load-bearing floor structure ranovable, únen it
ds π ud σ
able covers. The floor sbouid be τäade as stiff and
puncturo-roeistant ss poasible, consistent with weight
limitations. Macerial seloction should be based on
considerations of weight, stiffnese, and racistance to
corrosion, fire, fuoisture, and abrasion. Bocause of
the relatively froquaint roplacenent of floos parels,
cost also is significant.
σ ν:ε pe o mge o eeg
vironment to which the iloor is subjucted, the
designer shouid pay particular attontion to the poten-
dial effects of corrosion. Dissimilar metal jocints in Usc
vicinity of the tiodoon fittizgs aiouid be designed
carufuily. cpocially wben the faying aurf wau are sub-
joct to relative move-mest. The usc of msgtasium is
not roccmmeided for ca go floor cxnpenets of tao-
: tical aiscrait. If ud, aiur parts must τ
taitably protected, and shiridod froan any abrasion
whicts couls éiastroy the protoctive coating. If com-
poaite panels are usod for the flooring. the core
matcrial must be highly rosielant to "ster migration
end fungus attack.
The floor should be covert with α nonslip
material. such as the Type Il matting deucribed in
MiIL-Ω-5044, to provide good footing for perronnel
andi gooai trection for vohicics. The cargo com-
-ond qa pug q pqoqe Sugres pue aear saorued
toctive pancling. This material shouid be & light as
ponaible and sbouis serve to protect the fuselage
atruciure frosm mino: dumage and wear, fu: nish som..
tharnal and ausid isatslation, end provisic α smooth:,
snog-frce wali. Α commarcially availabie Fibargias-
rei:-forcod lamninatod sikoct α uterial is urod wideiy as
α cargo compariment linar. The tvin material is con-
strasstoc of paraliet glacs fibers bonded together ir. σ
croee-piy construction with epoxy rasin. For ad-
itional insuiation, Fibarglas batting mcterial ces: be
installed between the inrer comparinsent liner and
the belicopter skin.
All materials uaed fos coustructing and linisg the
cargo comperiment mauet be firo-roristant. Any cargo
save α fire deiactc: and remotely controllod fire ex-
tinguirbing equipraat. In any case, α means should
) bc providod to seal off the cockpit from: smoke and
/ fumes originating is the cargo compartmcaat.
Flight controis, crisical moechanical components,
and critical wiring and plumbing must not entes the
4*

AMCP 706-202
cargo comparinent. Ány such components locate:
immec'iataly adjacent to the wall of the cargo com-
partment must be st.ieldod properiy to guard againat
the poszibility that abifting cargo could deform the
wali locally and jam the controls or damage the com-
ponenta.
13-4.1.3 Loading Alds
Tbe dotail design of the cargo comparisrent must
include provisions for the bandling of cargo during
Jostäing and siowage. The utility value of the
holicopter svill be affected greatly by the attention this
arca roceives from the detail designer.
If cargo transport is one of the prime missions of
the belicopter, an integra! losding ramp is α nocssity.
This ramp should be at least equal in width to the
cargo cuinpariment floor, and should provide α con-
tisuone. sunocth surisce over this width, although it
may be sogmentod in'σ lef rnd right halves for better
conformance to rough tezrain. It shosid have the
capability of bring sdjusted to and locked at any
height within the wides. possible limnits. Measured
trom its positicn wirer dcpioyed on jevei grouno, α
minimum range of travel of -10 in. to + 50 in. is
recomnzended. The siope of the ramp whee: deployed
on lavel groun. should nof excoed 13 deg. Allowance
shouid be made for changer en belicopter floor teight
during londing. Jacks supporting the helicopter
weight will climinate auch scctling. but at the cost of
cansiderabie wright. Alternativety, α iost limiter (sce
Chapier 11) ahoukd be incorporatod into tixe ramp ac-
tusting mrchanie., to alkow the ramp to move up.
ward as soquired wben the helicoprer scttles under
lond. Ωüshout such α lond lisnitrr inctalled, tke ramp
sctuato: and it. supporting structure muat be
deaigned to support tbec weight of tse loaded beli-
copter.
Cargo belicopters must have Fover-operated
rampe. Power for oporaúing the ramp and associatod
doprs must be of α type availaibic from ground powe:
units. Light obecrvation and utálity belicopters may
Anuxz anu prunpd Agnv son
stored within θ. cargo compariment. Rear entrance
rampe muet be daployable in fight. Any doors
operating in conjunction with theec raanps must be
capablc of baing openud in flight; alternatively, such
doors may be ramovabk on the ground, with their
abeace baving no arfect on structural iniegrity of
flight characteristice.
Tbe ramps abouid be strong enough to permit
loading of thc benviest anticipated veticular load,
with only one cornez of tibe ramp contacting the
ground. The ramp may be sirengthened kocally to
provide treadway areas at keasi cqual in width and
13-13