3
to provide weapon system performanoc and main-
tainability.
Paramsters relsting weapon sysiem performance to
location are discussed individuaily in the paragraphs
that follow.
14-2.1.2.1 Projoctle Flight Path
Gun location must be such as to avoid intersection
of the extremos of the projectile flight path envelope
with the helicopter structure, including the main
rotor and externally-carriod storts. The projoctile
sion of the firrd proj-ctile, with the circle center being
coincidont with the gun barrel ceaterline. Factors to
ansider in determining the dispersion envelope in-
clude gun and ammunition dispersion, acrodynamic
forcos acting upon the projoctile, and defiections of
the gun mount and belicopter structure. ARMCOM
can provide dotails of gun and ammunition disper-
sion, and sorodynamic test data.
14-2.1.2.2 Nat Effectt
copcer structure to minimize the sffocts of muzzie
blast. The aircraft skin ncar tbe mv'zzie and adjacent
aircraft structure must be strong enough to prerent
gun blast damage. Reinforcement roquirements of
the sircraft akin and structure are determined by thc
distance between gun and skin, tic thicknes of the
sikin, and the donaity of frames and stringers. The gun
nogue
pies, radar antonnas, or door frames to causc or
croste a hazardous condition.
pulecs are rotatea and displaced from their normal
positicas relative to the gun barred and thereby
reduce recoil forces. ARMCOM should be consulted
for details regarding availability of muzzic brakes
and fasà seppressors for particular woapons, derign
considerstions for fitting a particuiar gun, and defini-
tion of muzze presure fielde. AMCP 708-251 pro-
vides informacion on the deign and application of
muzzde brakas. Consideration also should be given to
the relationehip of different wespon systems to coch
othar, such as machiae gune vs rockets or missiles,
o
gune) and during ths trajectocy (of rockcus, cic.).
14-2.1.I.3 Deirie Eyocties Pach
Ejecisd smmunitioa caews and links she! nor im-
uodn heticopter structure, control surfaces,

AMCP 706-202
rotors, or externally-carriod oquipnients. The trajec-
torics o. the ejocted debris can be detormined from
gun ejection veiocitics and the local acrodynamic
conditions about the helicopter. In genaral. the debris
munition feod velocity.
Debris ejoction velocities can be incicasod by tbe
use of accelerator mochanisms. Some accolerators use
rotating brushcs to capture and acceicrete the debris;
others use sprockets. The seloction of the dasign tech-
niquse must consider the available space, and the at-
titude, kinomatics, and shape of the ejectod debris.
Tlse accelerator must be designed for positive capture
and retontion or rejoction of thc dobris, and must be
locatod as close to the gun ejoction port as is poseible.
the casclink cection psth propaty. particulerty
where casos can strike a surface perpendicular to the
aniam.
For somc applications, an Ammunition food system
is usod that retus as gun debris to an internal storage
compartmesit. Thic design is suited bast for systuens
that amplay recycling conveyors or sprockste, rathes
than a linked belt, to tran port amanunition. The
return conveyance paih shal: accommodate positive
guidance of an occasionel miefirod cartridge as weil
as fired cases. The strength of the storage compart-
ment must be sufficicnt to protert personnel and the
vehicic from hazards causod by misfired cariridgos. A
ventilating system in the storage containur shall be
provided to remove residual gaics in the firod caos. •
14-2.1.2.4 Extaroal Gun Jetiroudng
In gencral, for installationt roquirine jettieon, the
gun and ammunition should be Iocated in externaliy-
mountod pods. The locations of the gun and pod aad
the angie of ejaction shall be such an to ineune
clearance from the helicopter, landing gsar. and ad-
jacent stores. Pod and helicopter structure abelt be
designed for compatibility with power jettisoaing pur
MIL.-Α-8591.
14-2.1.2.5 Acceslbßity
Location of the gun must provide sufficicnt
clearance and accossibifity to aliow performance of
maintenance — including cervicing. removel, and re-
plecenvent of the gun and related scocesorias; and
josding and unlosding of ammunition. The weapon
abso must be acceavible onough to permit such sc-
tivitios as disgnocis of malfunctions and the cleering
qqa queo ed se edo o
place, performance of ail standard sdjustments with
appropriate tools, and viewing anl reading of all
14-3