design, speed rang, beatings, hrushts and cooling
also are applicable here. It is suggested that reference
be made to MIL-Γ-6162 as α guide for specification
preparation.
Α typical blast-cooled DC generato., is shown
Fig. 7-8.
7-.3.3 DC Starters
With the advent of the DC starter/generator,
DC starter now has limited application. In the
the majority of applications were found on
copiers employing reciprocating engines, and,
fore, these starters were designed for crankink
vice rathcr than for the type of starting service
quired by the turbine engine. For cranking. the
starter operates at α nearly fixed speed until engine
ligh,-off. Present-day starters are designed for
ting the turbine engine, and the starter operates
α speed range of 0-20,000 rpm.
The DC starter/motor is quite similar, electro-
mechanically, to both the DC generator and the
starter/generator. Ordinarily, often three windings
are used, as opposed to the five windings often
empioyed in gcncriurb. Th, 5tt ai of' ",I ioII v ii,
main field with the armature and interpole winding
') provides the highest torque per ampere of current,
- and lends itself to use with battery power supplies,
As in the starter/generator and generator,
starter/motors employ grease-lubricated ball
ings. Brushes usually are .of the low-contact
type, and contain α high percentage of metal so as
minimize voltage drop at the high currents required
by the starting cycle. Because of the short duty
requirements, an integral fan provides required
cooling,
Thc DC starter/motor serves no function
starting the engine; therefore, design provisions
disconnect it from the engine accessory drive must
made. This usually is accomplished by α mechanica!ly
or electrically operated jaw engaging and
engaging mechanism.
Α turbine engine starter is shown in Fig. 7-9.
7-22.4 Boost Starting System
Modern military practices dictate the use.
turbine-powered helicopters for α variety of reasons,
one of which is their ability to use completely unpre-
pared terrain for takeoff and landing. Therefore,
ployment of helicopters away from airfield support
functions is common. Deployment in hcO or
temperature environments having no APU or ground
 ~, requires τ.Oat batteries not lose power facilities
- engine-start (apabilities. gas turbine
temperature on the energy The effect of cold

AMCP 706-202
lease rate of storage batteries is α matter of common
practical knowledge. The engine.startilSg cApability
of α fully chariged battery in α 70°F environ.ntnt is re-
duced to 27% after the battery has been stabilized in α
in commonly experienced -25°F environment.
Experience has shown that the probability of α
successful 0*F start capability decreases rapidly as
the level of the battery charge decreases.
the Gas turbine starting problems are not restricted
past, solely to the low end of the temperature spectrum. Α
heli. less obvious, but very real, problem is encountered at
there- the high end of tha temperature range. The hot start,
sCr. in which the temperature within the turbine exceeds
re- the safe operating rantije for turbine materials, is en-
countered all too frequently in high ambient tempera-
tures during the starting sequence of gas turbine-
star- powered helicopters. The hot start can caused be by α
over number of conditions. Α battery that is not charged
sufficiently and improper fuel control adjustments
are two conditions that can lead to critical hot-start
DC problems. Another cause of hot starts is the time-
lapse needed to accelerate the engine from light-off to
ille speed. The net result of hot starts, whatever the
τ"' cause, is premature engine failurc. Evmi thiigh α ' α1',
start might not result in an imanediate and catas-
trophic engine failure, it will shorten the times
between engine overhauls, thereby increasing heli-
copter operating costs.
bear- The characteristics of electrical starting systems
drop (and starter/generator systems) for turbine engines
to generally are such that maximum torque is delivered
from the starter/motor to the turbine upon the initia-
cycle tion of the starting sequence. Starter/motor output
torque decreases approximately as α straight-line
function at increased turbine speeds, with the
after starter/mr3tor torque reaching α very low value at
to starter/motor cutoff. The starter/motor is designed
be to have α stall torque capability exceeding the torque
limit of !he engine accessory drive system.
dis- Adding α boaot feature to the electrical starting
system provides an additional supply of starting
energy for extraordinary starting situations. Con-
χ-ptually, the boost power is obtained from α com-
bination of gas generator and gas motor, and by
of coupling the gas motor with the electrical starter/
motor. This boost feature is α supplement to, and in
no way is intended as an alternative for, the electrical
de- starting system. Even though the added feature is
used only occasionally, the components added to the
cold electrical starter, or starter/generator system, never-
theless must be taken into account, and their effect
upon such elements as overhand their must established be
operation of the moment, vibration characteristics,
mode, and the overall physical re- system in α generating
7-Il