; α
SOLENOID
RETUN
TO MAIN SECTION
PRESSUIRE CONTROL ANEA
(Α) THE PILOT VALVE CONFIGURATION SHOWN IS
FOR FONER RETURN OF MAIN SECTION TO THE
DE-EMERGIZED POSITION
[SOLENOID
RETURN Dnar
TO MAIN SECTION
PRESSUIRE CONTROL AREA
(Β) TH. PILOT VA_VE CONFIGURATION SHOWN IS
FOR SPRING RETLKN OF MAIN SECTION TO THE
DE-ERERGIZED POSITION
Fignre 2. Power an: Spctag Miaa Sactlon Vaivt
Reter te Nageal
ma; τ. sithe: two-way or one-wey. Screc:. contami-
natvn protec-on it requ.toa for orifices with α dia-
meier smainer chan 0.070 In.. as specñec in Mit.-H-
5440.
Generaily, tae idcul locz jion fo: he rectr:ctors as in
thn actuator device. They inay be cani ndge: o π ass-
1 3 π
bacalizes oesgn requirements ir: sauations *rre
Maisting cads can cause high press.. ε. In zdantaan.
exierns. seak point: are reduced. Fiow from α res..α:.
tor can nave des.ructive effects waea exiausai
direct.υ into α hydraubc host inc Or anac α snerp tuer
bena This snouid te avoidec Α pruma: · tca une af
onfice restrictors is taat they are relat ε: inaz.is.:
to temperature ciange; the π xsure δ. o for .
flon varies with the density of the flt
The detai requiremens for restricto.ae covered
in MIL-H-So40 and Μ3Λ.-V-25517.
Seq erate sarvos sre requairec for SAS €AS, and
Othnz suct. apon-α.os: * sere requireme-as ant dt
or caai-. st inuegratc: into the flighi contsol aa.
atoxre. Sarvos may be aaued for either singie o: du.

ANCP 706-202
systems. The control of the output ram is via an elec-
trohydraulic *ulve tha: converts the electrical com-
mands into the appropriate actions. The total
package inciudes electrical signal feedback devices,
and the preferred device is α linear variable-differ-
ential transformer (LVDT). The preferred electrohy-
draulic concept is the jet pipe valve, which is inher-
catly tolerant of contamination. Fig. 9-43 shows α
scirensatic of α typical single-system servo. Separate
servos generally are series-type control devices, and
incorporate α position lock that is activated when the
systcim is not actuated or when system pressure is
lost. MIL-V-27162 covers servo control valves.
¢.2.7.ι4 Aftswable Extereel Leakage
Consideration should be given to leakage levels for
dynamic scals is both static and operational
situations. ARF 1084 defines realistic in-service re-
quirenaeants for static and dynarnic scals.
9-2.8 HYDRAULIC SYSTEM INSTALLATION
The paragraphs that follow discuss the proper in-
stallation and support of hydraulic lines, hoses, and
components. The requirements also are discussed in
ARP 994.
9-2.8.3 Uise of Hoses aad Snirels
Hoses and swiveis raay te bcaty, costly, and can be
α maintenance problemr. Tiherefore, use: of these items
shall be minimized. Desirable alternatives for hand-
ling relative motion include coiled tubing and fixed-
body actuators, with articuiatirg links between the
actuator and the control surface ot :ubsystem func-
tion where applicabie.
4-2.8.2 Mainieasace Acccss
In order for the weight benefits of permangtt fit-
tings to be realized, thc hydraulic installation must be
locmed behind other rernowable equipment and in-
staliations
Fiher eleems shafi de lak.med so as to permit easy
access via doors. Differential psressare inqicators shall
be ε.ther ilusn with the skin or visible through trans-
pareat skin sections or nonstructural pingle- or two-
button doors. Thi: is neces. ary because α check of the
pressure leve: ι: required auring preflight.
All scparubi. connections shali be relacively
ac. essible since hey are employed to perinit compo-
nt. ι ren:ova. and/or removal of lines for access to
oth = equipme it.
Α visual check ef tic sesci vo.ρ flujd level condition
shol id oe possiolc withu removal of access panels.
I fi. and!or biccding ≈σ required, access to thesc
9-25