motors at high spoeds in order to obtain α high
output (power equals the product of torque
speed) pet unit volume. This, fundamentally,
the majority of aircraft AC power systems operate Σ400 Hit rather than thj Ω0Ha power usually 40- forahr tndhsnrial 60nHzcowerial usea.
plyayd for industrial and commercial uses.
speed operation poses certain problems in
and/or brush life, which, when couplea with the
that the airframe itself has α relatively short life,
suit in overhaul rates measured in hundreds of
rather than in the 10-20-yzar life rates considered
normal in industrial and commercial ground
plications.
High-speed, high-power-per-unit-volume
lion points up the design parameter that usually
termines the size of the helicopter electrical
Increased losses follow increased power output,
the size of the motor must be adequate to
these losses without exceeding motor
.temperature limits. It follows that the availability
effective cooling directly affects motor size. High
tudes, with low air density, will decrease the
available from α fail. High ambient temperatures
the the he.. urm,':fer and add to mofOr
temperature. Also, there is α significant amouat
beat generated in tlýχ rotating member of the
during acceleration from standstill; and if
starts are made, motor temperatures rise 5ignificant-
Another ly. significant item is the effect of
and/or frequency variation on motor life and
These items must be accounted for in the design
that, under the worst conditions, the motor
to produce the required speed at the Tfied spv
This means that, for all other conditions, the
will be operating at high-speed, high-power
win, high•" hg -'- . ., ε.
of input power, the larger the motor that is
The electrical motor also is Α torque device
sense that speed and power input, etc., are results of the torque imposed by the load. This
to use of motor speed torque curves. These
arue, smplyothr sequilibrium opetiorquecu .
motor. The peed, α current, power input, etc,
those values that occur when the motor operates
given torque.
7-2.5 ELECTRICAL SYSTEM CONVERSION
The typical helicopter requires both AC and
power. Therefore, the ability to volnvert one to
other as needed also is required. Various types
vices are available by which this conversion can
effected,
7-14

power 7-2.5.1 AC to DC Convetters
and Devices for converting AC into MC are of two
is why basic types: rotary and static. Rotary systems may be
on either AC-driven motor-generators or synchronous
em- ε Hm- converters. The latter are essentially DC generators
High- in which slip rings have connected been to the arma-
bearing ture winding by equidistant taps. The synchronous
converter, fact in effect, combine the functions AC of an
re- drive motor input with those of α DC-generator out-
hours, put, although with less flexibility in voltage and
power-factor control than the motor-generator com-
ap- bination. Converters typically are cheaper, more ef-
ficient, and more compact than corresponding
opera- motor-gcnerat-'rs. It is important, however, that they
de- operate as near to unity power-factor as possible
motor. since their "rating", ι.ε., relative output, decreases
and rapidly wiih decrease in power-factor. Table 7-1 dis-
dissipate plays this relative output relationship for various
material power factors and number of phases. Converters also
of must be synchronized with the input AC supply.
alti- The relationships between the AC and DC voltages
cooling and currents are functions both of the power-factor
re- and the number of phases (hence, number of Elip
tot rings). Converters may bc singic-phnasc, il whiuia nb
of there are two slip-rings und two slip-ring taps per
motor pole pair; three phase, in which there are three slip-
repeated rings and three taps per pole-pair; and so on.
However, because of the sensitivity of the output to
voltage the total number of phases, converters usually arc
size. operated with six phases. With α sine-wave input vol-
so tage, the DC voltage is the peak of the diametrical
continues AC voltage, the latter being the voltage between any
torque. two diametrically opposed taps.
motor
output At unity power factor and α typical 95% efficiency,
the DC and AC currents are equal with three slip
rings; required. with six slip rings, the DC current is twice the
in the AC current.
direct Static conversion firom AC to DC is accomplished leads by transformer-rectifier units (TRU). The rectifier
curves concept essentially acts to block conduction during
these cone-half of the reversing alternating current. Thus,
are current is unidirectional, but only during one-half of
α the sine-wave cycle. Β combinift, two units and α 3 at center tap from α ii transformer, rectification through-
out the full sine-wave can be achieved. Α smoothing
inductance connected in series with the load in such α
device effectively smooths out the wave peaks to α
τ relatively small pulsating ripp ε.
In practice, most rectifiers χ.mploy bridge circuits
DC to achieve such ful-wave rectification; however, the
the active components of which may be diodes or
of de- thyristors (silicone-controlled rectifiers). The output
be rulti α are series square of current pulses, which
together produce continuous α current output. Rip-