13-0 LIST OF SYMBOLS
K - spring rate of suspeision, Ib/Rt
κ = total spring rate of two-spring system,
1β/
- spring rate of first spring. Ib/ft
- spring rate of second apring. Ib/ft
length of suspoasion, ft
Μ mais of belicopter, slug - mas of external losd, slug
N - yaw restoring moment, Α lb/dec
Ω - weight of external load, Ib
= distance betweon suspension attach points,
χ - longitudinal distance in case of four-point
suspenision, ft
points, ft
υ four-point suspension, ft - natural froquency of suspenaion system, Hz
ω
13-1 INTRODUCTION
This chapter addrosees the requiroments for per-
sonnel accommodatiors and cargo provisions to τ
incorporsted in ths detail derign of hejicopiers. The
discuasion of the cockpit includes the pertinent re-
quirements for crew station geometry, passcnger
compartment arrangements. saaie and rastraint syz-
tams, control/dispiay arrangoments, map and data
cases, atc. Also included is α discusion of the inter-
face criteria pertineot to the iastallation and cmploy-
ment of cargo handling and survival equipment.
Design roquiremente for environmental control syc-
tans ard lighting gvidelines arc included.
The basic design of personnel and cargo ac-
commodations is determined during preliminary dc-
sign. The dotail designer should adopt an integrated
sonnel and cargo in such α way as to obtain maxi-
mum mission effectiveness. To acccmplish this goal,
the detail decigner will consider parameters such as
tbe exact location of displays, controls, mission
equiprvnt, and emergaucy equipment and must opti-
mize on the basis of anthropometric data and α
human factors enginoering analysis of crew tasks. He

AMCP 206-202
CHAPTER 13
CREW STATIONS AND CARGO PROVISIONS
must recognize existing design boundaries es spoci-
fiod by the preliminary de: gn and the appropriate
cations are listod within the chapter where ap-
plicable.
13-2 PERSONNEL
ACCOMMODATIONS
13-2.1 COCKPIT
There is α growing body of literature, mcthocs, and
practices which provide guidance in the arplication of system enginoering to the development of cock-
pits. Howçver. there are few perrranent, specifsc, ab-
solute roquirements. The missicn profile. the vchicie
constraints, function analysis, time-linc analysis, link
enalysiz, and the deveiopment of new muicriais aná
components must be conaidered in determining cock-
pit design.
In additios: to design handbooks and manuais —
χ.γ., Reis. 1 and 2 —.reference should be made to
MIL-STD-250, MIL-$TD-850, MIL-STD-1333,
MIL-STD-1472, Ref. 3, AFSC DH 2-2, and pars. 13-
3 α1.δ 4.5 of AMCP 706-201.
The general cockpit dimensions, scating arrange-
ments and exteraal vision envelopc will have been de-
tennined during preliminary design. The trado-offs
available to the detail designer include standardiza-
tion of dimensions and controls versus opportunities
dynamic shape. The gcal of maximumn vision in all di-
raciions may compete with instrument panel lo-
cation, airframe sveight, comfort, armor protection,
and acrodynamie shape.
The detail designer mus consider the entire
anthropometric rauge of user population for which
the crew station is cxigned. The reach and body
clearance envelopes must consider the heaviest
clothing. survival, and protective equipmen: likely te
β worn or used, Guidance for the application of
antiropometric factors is contained in Chapter 13,
AMCP 706-201.
Crew station arrangement and geometry shall bc in
80::rdance with MIL-STD-250 and MIL-STD-1333
unica: otherwise spacifiod by the procuring activity.
Deviation from these spocifications, or the location
13-1