Α* N 202
SINGLE SHANK LALL DOUBLE SHAN% BAL.Λ
EYE EYE FORK
STRAP EYE STRAP FORK
су
Λ-EOLT CLIP THIMBLE
Flgare §7-ιß. Aircraft Wing Rope Fitsings
Anothsr etyective socthod of attaching fittings is by
mcans of pourcel zitic. Α spocial high grade of pure
zinc is used tc' fl! the socket. (Babbitt and other
gared, thc joins strength approacher that of the wire
Fo: teapoiary cetteiiono, U-bolt clips me.υ be
ernployed. β/szr fi,:ming α loop with α U-bolt clip. α
wizc roge thimkle shou'δ be placed in the loop to pre-
vent kinking. Ft is csvsniei ihat the saddice or basc oi
the clip bear agai.st θ: longer cs live end of the ropc.
whil the U-trolt benrs agaisst the shorter cr dead
enci. Τ'he cnd of thte wi:ε rope should be seized
properly. The strengkh of α clip fostening is ies: than
80% of the sirengti of the cable.
Α seldom-used mey #? cjoining cablca and makis.
in tbe field for repaix wien equipment or fittings ars
unavaiiable. To join twe -ables, each of the free cid
strands is worked ower and under : strand in the
othe: cable, working against the lay. Α total of four
turi σ for cach straru is adequate for most purpeses.
An eys splice can be made as α loop of any size, or
light around α thia ble. The eads are tucked under
ibe main strauda against te lay and around the
17-16

Flgure I7-16. Caabe Spticla
cable. Normally, thres sucl.σ for cech strant are all
that can be managec. Splicing is illustratead in Fig. 17-
16. Field-spliced caoles prver should de cxposod to
more than SO% cf the narmal breaking koad fos the
cublc.
Hravy abrasios. overloading. end berding around
sheaves or drums :hnt ase too svail in diaoscier are
the principal ressons for dexerioretion of wirr rope. Α
kinked, bent, or flattened zres cannot be tclerates in
α control cabie. Tlas rope os cabie sboula be: kept weil
lubricatod, using tkc labricant supplicd by the manu-
facturer. Normaily, θ Jubrjrant must be teeted to
200?F in oraies to poncaraic. Nylon or vinyl coatings
are effercive for scoling in lubricant and for pro-
toating ware rope from dint and conceien.
17.5 HEAT TREATMENT
17-3.1 GENERAL
H:at treatment is dofinod as the application of
tirso-temperature-cooling cycle relationsizips in order
te cause atonic, molecuiar, or crystalline trare-
formations in materials. Tbese transformations are
selectod to impart desirable propecties fur particular
end-uscs. Although such transformations occur in