CP 706-202
Ne CHANGE IN PHOPELLER TOAOJE Ω: TH N,
'Ne - CHANGE IN ENGINE TORQUE WITH N,
δ0 CHANGE. IP: PROPELLER TORQUE WITH SLADE ANGLE
не
LAPL.ACE OPERATOR
Ne. Ne
1
ge
5ir,Σ+11 *γ (ρ, σ + 1
Figure Σ-44. Linearized Prapeller Control Blsck
Disgram
dynamic performance and blade stress are schieved.
For efficiency and apead, these anelyses are per-
formed with the heip of = higi-speed digiiai com-
puizr,
Of the secondary details, thickness and planform
are the most important to propelker sirength and
weight. The choice of blade thickness and its disiri-
burion along the blade is affected by structurs:)
capacity requirements and also by considerations of
vibration-critical specd location. The serodynamic
requirement to minimize profile drag losses puts α
constraint on blade thicknens, and special probiems
such as tip compressibilsty also may affect τãε design.
The cnoice of blade plenform shape is affected by the
choice of bisde materiel and construction; with spar-
and-shell Fiberglas blades. α tapered planform (wider
inboars) lends itseif to doth miuimum weight and
reducesi noise. The selected activity factor usuo!".
limiss the emount of taper — the bigher the activity
factor, the less the taper. For solid aJuminuin blades,
α planform with an elliptical or rotnd tip often is
used for reduced noise.
5-8.4.2 Bdnde Cazatructios
Viewed as α siructure, α propciler biade is σ ro-
tating. cantilever beam subjoczod se two major classas
of loading: inertial forces and acrodynamic forces.
The inential forces consist of steady cestrifugal loads
and vibratory resctione; the sercdynantic forces are
botl sicady and periodically vesying. Stcady loads
ase imporiant so the biade dasign. but vibratory
loading uzunlly is the dominant iafizence. Even

.6
without dynaenic mzgetecstion, vibratory loading at
ons cycle per revolution (1Π) cao be very significant. •
In addition, if the freguency of serodynamic Icad
variation approaches one of the natural frequencics
of the propeller, considerable magnification of the
cyclic loading in thc blade can result. Much effort is
spent in blade structural design to limit this dynamic
megnification by properly positioning the bendiag
and torsional frequencics.
In generul, there are six major structural aspees
that must be considered in cesigning propeller blades:
1. Axisl load capacity
2. Bending capacity
3. Bending stiffness
4. Bending frequencies
5. Torsional stiffness
6. Torsional frequency.
The ot jective of the structural designer is ξ3 cbtain,
by judicious use of various maicrials and configura-
tions, the lightest and best structure possible within
the geometric constraints defised by aeroáynamic
requiremeats.
5-8.4.2.1 Types af Bladc Conriructins
The simpicsi connirucion is the solio biace, as
shown in Fig Σ-4.ξ(Α). Wich the prope: choice of
material, this constrection bas provióed an aorxp-
table balance of weght snd structure for many years
on conventional aircsaft. Its advantsges arc simplici-
ty and lowv cost. fts discdvantages are inclficien: usr
of matesial in thre center of the cross section, particu-
larly in bendiag, and the fact that the primary struc-
ture is exposod to service-inflicted foreign object
damage (FOD). Unfortunately. propsiicer blades
often are subjocted to thc impact of varionss objscts.
ranging from sand and dust to stones and birds.
Many of there impacts are capable of inflicting sur-
face damage that propagaics as fatigue cracks
because of the cyclic strzsscs cauzed by the unsteady
loadings. Recognizing the potential of FOD has buxen
shown repcatedly to be cosential to acceptable service
perfcrmance. With solid construction, the designer
must select materials with low notch sensitivity and
low crack propagation ratcs, and must observe con-
scrvative streas limits.
The simplest form of hollo.:-dlade construction is
shown in Fig. 5-φ5(Β). Thsis is α fully stressed skin of
monocoque consiruction in wtich the centrai
material of the bisde soction, wkich contribute. little
to beam surength or siffnese, is abcent. The simple
hollow bisde construction bas the potential for sub-
stential weight reduction, but two significant prob-
lems have interfereri with reulizing this potential.
First, foregn objacts that only gouge the suzface of