In the rotary system, the rotating motion of
or mating elements compreLses the gas. Major
of rotary compressors are sliding vane
"lobed-rotor, liquid piston, and helical,
9-3.2.1.2 Dynamic Displacement
compressor, In this type α high-speed, rotating
ment imparts velocity to the gas. This velocity
verted into α pressure rise in the compressor
other diverging paMsageways. There are two
arrangements, centrifugal and axial flow.
Centrifugal compressors have an impeller
to α centrifugal pump. Impellers can be
singly, or in multiple units for higher
pressures. At α constant speed, α centrifugal
pre3sor delivers nearly constant discharge pressure
over α considerable range of inlet capacities.
Axial-flow compreassrs move air parallel
rotor axi3. They are made in single- or
versions. In the latter, matching stator blades
the flow of air to the proper entrance angle
ceeding rotating blades. Generally, axial
However, capacity. for ultra-high are used
many gri.' annhlictinnt for qmaller unit.,
-,J• ..... • ρ ......... ............
9-3.2.2 Compressed Air Supply System
Operation
There is overlap in the performance of
compressor types, and sometimes several can be
for any given service. Naitowing the choices is
ces of considering such factors as space and
capacity ranges and power ranges, limitations,
different types.
In α typical helicopter compressor of the
eating type, the air entering the compressor
ENTRAPPED
%
Figure 9-53. Sliding Vane Compressor
9-34

single the air inlet cap on the first-stage cyiinad head passe.ν
types through α filter to allow mmoval of any pwrticsa that
(Fig. 9-53), might damage the internal components of the
assembly. The fittered air drawn is through the intake
valve into the first-stage cylinder by means sac- of the
tion created on the downward, stroke or intake, of
first-stage ec- the piston. On the upward (compression)
is con- stroke, the intake valve is forced shut the by in-
volute or creasing pressure., and spning-loaded the discharge
main valve is forced open when the presaure reaches α piv-
determined value, comprese• The air is directed
similar thrc'lgh the discharge valve and into the first inter-
arranged cooler connected to the first-stage head, where the
discharge heat created durir.γ compression is dissipated
com- through forced convection by the airflow from the
fan directed over the intercoolers. The flow of cooled,
compressed air next passes through the first-stage
to the relief valve connected between the first inter- -
multiple-stage cooler and through the inlet port in the second-stage
redirect cylinder head and then into the second-stage -
for sue- cylinder during the downward (intake) stroke of the
comarressors second-stage piston. The operation inside the three
stage. first of the that to is identical stages subsequent are there
ε • . τ ,' 9,-3.2.3
\ Selection and Moisture σ-parators (Fig. 9-54) are used in 'zon-
junction with α chemical drier the dehydration as
different equipment of α high-pressure pneumatic system.
used These units, wor king together, deliver dry air having
α pro-
weight
,.AToD of the Ω
,WLATING R PES.', VALVE• . ρ rmcipro- . V
through ,,α
RI•LIEF
I INLET -
OVIRINOWq CO----)
ACrUAlED BY
OPERATING Ω BLOW (8) UDOW
Figulre 9-54. Meoistr Separator Imcerporathg
Systsi Fressm re Replathig Valve