AMCP 706-202
standard sca level conditions which is 0.00238
slug/φ'. However, for tAlL-Λ-7808 cit at normat
operating temperaturcs ρ * 1.748 slug/ft'. Consc-
quently, if the helicopte: designer cans estimate or
experimentally determine the oiliness of the .ns-
mission atmosphere, an average ρ may be employed.
Ref. 4 suggests & 34.25:1 air-oil ratio in which casc
Fu. 4-1 can te expressed 8σ
Π - 2.18 10" (ν'DLo.)) ,hp
Methods of gear mesh oiling also affect windage
losses Differences of virtually 200% have been re-
ported to exist between in-mesh and out-of-mesh
oiling for α large. single-reduction gear set (Ref. 5).
The torquc or load-scnsitive ccntribution of thc
transmission to powes loss is duc almost entircly to
the rolling/sliding load-carrying bearing and gear ele-
ments.
Good first-order approximations for antifriction
bearing iosses at moderate speeds are given in Ref. 6
and with α little greuter precision in Ref. 7. However.
wherc very accurate determinations arc required or
where high-speed applications exist, the prediction of
thesc losses requires an understanding of the more
complex factors involved (Ref. 8). For optimizstion
studics and examination of the effects of external de-
fections and asymmetrical loading. there is no sub-
stitute for α good Jigitat computer program of the
basic equations such as is presented in Ref. 9.
In general. the significant power losscs in bcarings
occun in regions of appreciable contact zone slip.
Censequently. simple, wcil-guided cylindrical roller
buafunps &re the most efficient for most applicstions.
Radizliy loaded ball bearings are lower in efficieney.
while ungular vontact (thrust loaded) ball bearings
ε.hidit signifs. ntiy greater friction losses. When the
rower loss characteristics dcteriorate sharply as ex-
cessive :entrifug.il and gryroscopic forces affect ball
kiemstics. Standard taperet soller bearings (coni-
cal tolling ciements) are the kaast efficient of these
fou: typcs. in-Ect; decavse cf ihe heavily loadef cone
rib ihat ι. in siding contaet witit ihe large end ci the
sonical roller. Α nen ype of snguen contact cyhn.
drical rei.er (Ref. ι0) may offer advant uges when ful-
υ deveioped. In this type, te cone .ib load is theo-
retically reduced. bst uxreasco sliding resuhs at onc
or tuth of τ'ε :ace-roller contaces. Expeticine is ι:τ-
suffcient for tvalueriaon of its relative heat genr-
ration. but irdicatio..σ are tha! st wil! prov: to ba
ore eff:ient than tht staicard taperes sofer and
46

2-ζ._
that its osses will approach those of the anguler co.)-
tact ball bearing. The plain journal bearing is un-
suitable for heavily toaded pow.ρ transmission ap-
plications (sc par. 4-2.4.2), although it may have
satisfactory application in lightly loaded uccessory
uscs; the power loss with this typc of bcaring is at
lcast twice as great as for any of thc previously men-
tioned types (Ref. 11). The hybrid toost bearirg
(hydrostatic plain thrust bcaring in series combi-
nation with the stationary or rotating ring of an an-
(4-2) gular contact ball thrust bearing) has boen evaluated
experimentally (Ref. 12), Eut no helicopter experience
is known. Thc experimental work indicated α friction
torquc for the hybrid ocaring of roughly twice that
for the simple ball thrust bearing.
The accuracy of the calculated losses for bearings is
dependeat upon proper installation and application
design. Excessive preload, duc to instrllation and/or
thermally induced, cun easily result in doubling thc
friction torque and also will have detrimental effects
upon fatigue life and reliability.
Thc power loss in gcaring is quite an involved and
controversia! subject. However. the specific veighe
rankings listed carlicr in thts paragraph hoid truc foi
busic efficiency also. There are reasonable ranges of
geur ratio for which specific types of genr drives ure
best suited: when θ upper limits are excecúec, the
resultant power loss is api to increasc to α level where
superior overall efficiency may be obtuined by re-
verting to two stages of lower ratio. The suggested
optimum ratio ranges are:
1. Concentric -- epicyclic. 3:1 to 5:1
2. Pcrallel axes — straight spar. 8:τ to 2.5:1
-- single helicals, 1:1 to 3:1
— doubic hciicais, (hereingbonc).
1:φ tc 10:1
3. Intersecting axes — spiral bevel. 1:1 to 3.5.1.
Α number of assumptious are inciuded in these
suggested ranges. The lower limit for the epicyclic
assumes α simple (soureversing) design. The planet
gears become excessively small so that the sun driver
tend: to uct like α specd-incrrasing drive with α long.
incfficicnt arc of approach. At these low ratios the
epicyclic system becomes planct-bearing-capacity
limited in that it is difficult to fit sufficientiy large
bearings to carry the necessary load if the gear tecth
are stressed to satisfactory levels.
The upper limit for ihe epicyclic represents u
reasonabiy designed, four-planet idler systen whose
weak point is the tendency for pitting of the sun gear.
Becausc the designs is sun-pinion-diameter limited (to
acccptabic Hertzian stress levels) and ihe planet gears
arc ¿our tin:es the diameter of the sun. the system is
rapidiy beconting inefficient from α weight stand-