ELECTRICAL
SYMBOLS OF LIST 7-0
Α current, charging
-
Σ- min time, charging
reactive - volt-amperes, V 'RS
Α-hr capacity, in battery increase - Α,
INTRODUCTION 7-I
7-1.4 GENERAL
electrical overall of determinants basic The
the equipment of demands the are layout and design
and power, electrical for helicopter the on
posed ir operational constraints and physica!
will latter The mission(σ). and its helicopter
in space of availability the as aspects such
the by imposed requirements sr.fety the craft,
the ch,'sen by imposed penalty weight the and
system.
σ,.,. ,., .;of ε!rcaol ... -φ....;ρ..
determined are utilization and characteristics
however, general, In MIL-STD-704. ..- ' and normal both for DC V 28 require
as fuel pumps, flight operation of such items
most avionic equipment, panel lighting, ments,
frequency constant electrically-driven weapons;
Hz AC power for some avionic equipment; and
variable-frequency AC for some heating
and frequency-insePsitive loads. Thus, with suitable
conversion compokients, the basic helicopter
trical system can be DC, variable-frequency
AC), or constant-frequcncy AC AC). (χ'
New helicopter design trends are toward
electrical power in general, as well as
'amounts of constant-frequency power.
helicopter system designs provide an input speed
the γ.nerator that varies by more than +5%.
In addition, α major consideration in
system selection is engine starting. If the
engine starting torque is less than 90 lb-ft.
28-V DC starter-generator powered by two CA-5,
CA-9 nickel-cadmium batteries will provide the
simplest self-contained start system. However,
lb-ft limit defines α small engine, and, therefore,
small helicopter.
The actual choice of elcctrical systems will
upon the relative demand for DC, cf AC, or
and α weight analysis of the neceusry components.
This system selection generally will include tike
sion on the existence (or not) of an

Σ 706-202
CHAPTER 7
SUBSYSTEM DESIGN
total certain α Above unit (APU). power auxiliary
considerable u cxamplc, for AC, for cf requirement
α CSD by using reaiized can be saving weight
system electrical the to input (constant-specd drive)
of an presence or the system; an inverter of instead
starting or pneumatic provide hydraulic may APU
weight by system electrical overall decrease thus and
Α startei-goeeralor. DI for α need the eliminating
for case this in used be would transformer-rectifier
other DC power needs.
may helicopter the on system power electrical The system
or conversion sourc= such power upon based be thus
as: devices the
by: driven generators DC or AC I. the by
system transmission power rotor main The α. include
drives accessory Engine β. the air-
by controlled (speed drives speed Constant χ. system,
convertcr) torque mechanical or hydraulic sub-
controlled (speed turbines Constant-speed δ.
turbines) gas or air by
Ifivetciis by 2.
helicopters Transformer-rccufiers 3.
Batteries. 4. emiergncy
as char- the type of system well as The selection of instru-
electrical system the of of the components acteristics und
that follow. the paragraphs further in are discussed 400-
often
(deicing) 7-1.2 SYSTEM CHARACTERISTICS
The type of electrical power source generally will
elec- have been selected δ'urirng preliminary design (see
AC (vf Chapter 7, AMCP 706-201). During the detail design
phase, it is necessary to confirm this selection and to
increased define the distribution and utiliaation systems.
increased Detail design begins with the specifications for the
Many particular helicopter, which typically spell out:
to I. The design gross weight (ι.ε., the weight of I .,ε
primary mission payload plus the empty weight, in-
electrical cluding mission-essential equipment)
maximum 2. The maximum Performance capabilitim of the
α 400-Α, •rcraft at its design gross weight
or 3. The specific primary power source(σ) and the
power conversion methods
this90 4. The specific utilization equipment, which will
α include lights, displays, communication equipment,
avionics, fire control, and additional electrically
depend powered equipment such hoists. as
vf AC While the of utilization equipment components set
is typically defined in the specifications, numerous
dcci- options may still be exercised. For example, it may be
on-board left to the discretion of the designer as to whether ans
7-1