and tKt~ring hubs). Centrifugally-operated droop
are ad flap restrainers deired; if not self-contained,
special ground support equipment is needed to
restrain blade droop.
4. fold hinge, lade with quick, simpli means of
locking unlocking and motion ab,)ut thic hinge blade
Clamps to restict 5 lag hinge motion (articulated
rotors)
6. Quick-disconnect fittings for attaching handling
lines to blade tips (optional)
7. to the rotor Acocw (steps, handholds. heLd
and ω work toeholds, or rungs) platform for per-
forming rotor-head folding operations.
Major stops in α typical manual blade-folding
operation of α single-rotor helicopter are:
The rotor should 1. be rotated to the proper azi-
muth position for folding,
2. Rotor brake or rotor lock should be applied, or
one blade should be secured to the fuselage to retain
rotor hub azimuth position.
or necessary be it may hub an articulated With 3.
to α predeter- or all blades to move some desirable
lag hinge and to lock out mined position about the
hinge. about this motion any further
δ C^^iu; 4. , . .4 .
for folding. setting proper positioned to the
to blades on all installed should be locks Pitch 5.
folded. be
restrainers: 6. Flap
flap automatic articulated hubs without α. For
all on be installed restrainer should flap α restrainers,
more. or deg 90 blades folded
teetering or flap hubs, gimbal-mounted For β.
out. be locked should motion hinge
the folded to secure be installed should Racks 7.
required. if or other structure, fust.lage to blades
.
Α blaud-suppuning polc α. and steadying σ as inu φ
at- be should and accessibility, required size by blade
and unlocked, be should joint tached. The blade-fold
be secured and secured. Blades may fo!ded each blade
the or about structure, lines to helicopter racks, by in
fold hinge,
be may be folded, it to is tail assembly the 9. If
necessary to fold it before the main blades or at an in-
termfediate point in the fold cycle.5-.
"-o4.1.2 PoWi Blde Foldif
For flight safety it is mandato'ry that α power blade
folding system be properly interlocked to prevent any
malfunction from occurring in flight. Interlocks also
are necessary to prevent damage to helicopter comn-
sequencing of the power portents due to improper
blade-folding systen. it also must be apparcnt to the
corn- sequence is flight crew that the blade unfolding
plete and the aircraft is safe for flight,
5-36
ι06~

componGnt The following requirements are
necessary for α power blade-folding system:
mnchanism I. Power rotor orientation
2. Rotor lock to maintain azimuth position
3. Automatic droop and flap restrainers (articu-
latcd, teetering, or gimbal-mounted hub)
4. Contro! position indicating devices for pilot
5. Power pitch locking device
6. BI. hinge le lag positioning device (articulated
hubs)
7. Blade fold hinge unlocking devicc
Blade 8. fold actu~ators.
The power blade-folding mechanism for α typical
blade of the CH-46 is shown in Fig. 5-27. An electro-
mechanical actuator housed within each rotor blade
folding hinge pin operates α linkage that sequentially
inserts pitch lock pins, positions the blade about the
lag hinge, releases the blade fold hinge lock, and
rotates the blade to the proper fold position.
Operational Requireantats 5-5.4.2
in be accomplished frequently must Blnde folding
lighting, winds, environment with poor an adverse
helicopter motion. and possible rain,
conditinns I can these fnldina hladP mnial Μ under
In view error. and human injury in crew readily result
con- should components of folding demign of this,
sider:
components loose I. Minimizing
tools special or large 2. Minimizing
pins, (pitch lock fixtures to all flags 3. Attaching
for is ursafe helicopter the is apparent it so that etc.)
flight
working areas and access adequate Providing 4.
opera- folding performing the for on the helicopter
tions.
*•λ~orut•.• β~twu• ν ρ, Notice andi betww•ν Α-I•
to adequate be should structure and helicopter blades
un- deflections system drive hub, and blade, allow for
If of the helicopter. to motions or due wind loads der
are clearances or blade-to-blade the blade-to-fubelage
se- or bladt provisions for biade ι,..-ks inadequate
matc. be should lines curing
Σ ε SftCe erte
In addition to the specific safety consideration dis-
cussed in relation to design and operational
requirements, the entire blade-folding operation
should be reviewed from the system safety viewpoint.
The identification of potentially hazardous con-
ditions should be made from the viewpoint ofa -
environmental con- material failure/malfunction,
ditions, personnel error, supervisory influence, or any
factors. Maximum effort combination of these
should be made during the design phase to reduce the