140 LIST OF SYMBOLS
presontod aroa
Λv = vuinereble aroa - singly vuinerable area of componont ι of α
sysiem
AVT - zingly vulnerable area of α systom
FrH - conditional kill probability
of α systom
141 INTRODUCTION
As dcacribod in Chapier 2, AMCP 706-201, and
ADS-11. the coacopt of belicopter survivability is
broed and complex. However, the efiocts of arma-
mant and protoctive matarials can be evaluatod in
torms of throe basic moaas of coping with α bostite
cavironment (vbethor the bostility is man-made or
natural):
1. Avoiding it
2 Neutralizing ι8
3. Enduring it.
Avoidance piacos cmphasis upon vehici: perform-
ance. To avoid α spocific eurvironment, α helicopter
roquires the ability to fly above it, or around it, or to
outrun it. Armor and armament bave α negative
effuct upon this aspoct of survivabibity, bocause they
add weight and serodynatnic drag. From & military stancpoint, neutralizing tise en-
viroament requires destroying the source of houtility
or hazard, or otherwise rendtring it harmices. This
onn un qge
not involve the systom being protocied. However, α
capebility to corroct α bostile environmcat may be
oohp
standoff wecpone (armament) or countermeasures.
Enduring the bostile environmont places ceaphasis
upo : such arons as redundancy and scperation,
abicding of ρ sion-criticc' components with struc-
ture or compononts that are las critical, concentra-
tion of criticel componeate in α singie place within
the vohicle cone in ordkr to decrease the sotal area
proseated to the hazard, and sddition of dendweight
proletuon such as armor.
Armor and armameat, axpecially thc latter, must
be avaiuntod in coutexis other tiann survivability. For

AMCP 706-202
CHAPTER 14
ARMOR, ARMAMENT, AND
PROTECTIVE SUBSYSTEMS DESIGN
attack hoticopters, the ability to survive ε bostife on-
vironment, although cusentiai for mission com-
plction, is not in itself σ true moasure of the worth of
the vehicloo" armamont. In ntber words, the pomible
trade-offs among porformance, anmor, and arma-
mont always affact survivaSility, but albo may involve
-ed sogqeu gr Arepd seqo ns Aura
formance (σ0ε Chapter 2, AMCP 706-201).
pojd qqo-ν φ
prior to the start of dotail deeign. Alhough those
trade-offs should be updaiod continuously through-
out the deaign proce cees as more complote and procise
data bacome availabie, α discuasion of their nature
and deecription is buyond the scope of this chapter. α
However, it is osential that the designar retain α con-
sietent, balanoed approech so tine ovarai efiucir oi
detail design decicions rogurding location, inetalse-
tion, selection, and uae of armament. Thcsc roletion-
shipe are subtle and, in many instanoss, are difficult
to quantify. As α rosult, much of the material coa-
tained in this chapter is quaätative, with specific ro-
lationships being included only in inetances in which
gonaral physical relationahips are known.
14-2 ARMAMENT SYSTEMS
Ageg
dividual instediations of guns, guided -nimios, or free-
fight rockets. The nuaber and type of installutions,
and the mix of guns, missilce, or rockeis, are
doecribod by ti.ε governing bedicopter detail specifi-
cation. This chapter containe thr beeic helicoptar
deuign guidelines, considerationsand requirsscuts
that apply to tha instaliation of armament systeeme.
14-2.1 GUNS
Guns of the number and culibar deacribod by the
governing helicopter dotail specification shalf be in-
stallod in the roquired positions. An ammunition
supply of the quantity and type dictated by the detail
14-2.1.1 Typa
o
uac. They include air-cooled, gas-oparatad 7.62 μ
14-1