Requinemenvie for lat suppronion sufficient lo
dafsust pucific slesuats will be providod in α clasnifiad
supplamsat to thr systen specification. The
wanimues accaqenbaie siguuture will be dascribed in
suare: detail, wicik saximen aligwabie licniss being
prescribed for the exergs rudinted at snch of severai
wawedongthe widie tibc Si specirume.
Α cemprebaxsive Inaiemand of miditary IR sech-
Π IS V UA Sou
828 (Recfrorsd Mlitary Syatmns. Pars- Onr and Tw:od.
Adusbode far tir astimuiion of Il radintion. with or
witiout sppraasicn. are given by libis two-part hand-
book. Additional refarumes portiacat lo I8 suppres-
sov dssign will be piovidnd by USAA VSCORd upon
requept. slowcuer. compliance wita asppreseion
reqeirumnces will be duacostraieat by α IR signature
maway (sue per. 8-Σ.2. AMCF 706-293).
3-2.6.3.4 Esdmt Sonyeea8
As moseri previonniy. the principui sourcos of iR
radintics froen σ balicopter arc the visible box purts of
the engisse ond the engine cxhaust. Therefore. the
meost ianportant part of tbe IR supprcasion subsys-
tann geaarally is the cxhaues sugpreesor. Dupending
on tnc miesions ascignoci so tin: ingincupics. iic sup-
pressor may be an intagral pan of ibe helicopter or it
nasy be derigarod as α kit to he instadied only whcn the
helicos: er is in α combat role in whict cngagrment by
IR secking weapon(σ) is probable. Further. the ex-
haust IR suppressor muy be devekoyed by the engine
contracior ans providrd es an engine sccemory, or
the hedicoptes manufacturer may be responsible fo?
the deveiopment of the suppressor and of the installa-
tion.
Design of an exhaust iR suppressor is : complex
иi π
Chapter 8, AMCP 706-201, and thc trade-offs among
the possible puwer losses and weight increnses also
are discussed. The methods of cooling α suppressor
arc described and the possible use of low emissiv aty
costings aisg is discussed. Further explanation of the
heat transfer processes, iucluding pertinent eguations
and values fer the applicable rnaterial propurtics and
other constants, is given in Ref. 4.
Typically, the first requirement of an exhaust sup-
prestor is to shicid the hot engine pars from external
vicw. The shield in turn is itself heated by impinging
exhaust gas. The effectiveness of the shield as an IR
radiator ihen must be reduced by cooling or by con-
trol of the emissivity of the surface of the shicid, or
borh. stowever. the temperature of the cxhaust plume
can be reduced only by csoling and this really can te
accomplished only by dilution: by mixing cooler ais
with the plume. Depending on the specific suppres

sion requinemants, the amoud air msay ta
quitc largs aod tihe pouur to provide sie
aacvesary airflor aico may brsooesec baegs. Raf. 5
deocribus α study of acdivanc tagine/tunaumimian/
airfranie iatgsasion со sis cpable of mmtiag
stringent 1R suppreraion requiresoont wits sisimam impuct upoa propuision systen weight and poursr
meguired for specitiod meisaion perforimene:ε.
Wbether aa exhuus! iit zuppreaoor is snadis an inie-
grai part of the engine isstatlation or ν retaovabie kit.
the instalßation must be sound structurally aad must
not affect adveruoly she vibratica cnvironanent of τêse
engine or of tiec baticopter. Further, the inutedacirs
of an exhsuce IR suppremor on σ helicopear shaf srd
resadt is α roduction of angine or esgise compari-
ment cooling beluon nisimum requiree Icvels uroder
any normal operating condition. Ako. tbe instaliu-
tion shall ner reduce apprscisity the tioner avaidmiie
from the engine, or increee appreciably citber thc
power requirod frora ths cagine ur toe SFC baapd on
power requirod. Typically. & powes loes Rot in ercee:
of 3% of the pouer requirod to hover α8 the spocifisd
hur-day cordition (ε.γ.. 4000 ft, 95°F) is sccoprable,
although the loss aliowable in α given case will de-
pendi upon tioe sappraision levcis specitioú. in αñυ
case, thc izstaliation of any device to suppress the §R
signature sbald mos prevcat the comnpliance of thc beli-
copier with the performance requiements of the
system specification.
Contrcl of α belicopter propulsion systemn requires
considerution of θ charscteristics of the helicopier
rotor as wel! as the engine. This cawirol sysem is
defined during preliminary design, and the
roquirements ase discussed in detail in Chapter 8.
AMCP 706-201. The detail design engineer must in-
terface the control system design with the engine
manufactuser to assure that the eperation and per-
formanse defined in preiiminary design are at-
tainable. Accordingly, the continuing relationship
between engine and airframe manufacturers is para-
mount during the detail design phase. Detailed dis-
cussion regarding this interface relationship is pro-
vided in Chapter 8, AMCP 706-203.
3 4 FUEL SUBSYSTEM
34.1 GENERAL
Thc fuel subsystem consists of tanks, refueling/
defucling features, tuel fced and vent lines, fuel
pumgs, valves, fuel gaging coraponents, and asso-
ciated iterns such as fuel tank compariment struc-
ture. drainage provisionss, and protection materials.
3-9