"Τ
.V"I.
• ••:•
system result weight will from placing the clutch
the location of highest speed; ι.ε., between the
first and the stage of reduction gearing.
other considerations in multiengine configurakions
such as vulnerability, reliability safety, and -
require locating the clutch between the first
second stage of reduction gearing,
requircments Operational for clutches
helicopter configuration, and mission, life
However, current Army clutch requirements
twin-engine helicopters typically art..
capacity ultimate torque I. The minimum
"dutch be shaIl ξ limit torque (limit torque 2.0
Ξ maximum continuous drive torque).
overrunning continuous full-speed 2. 2-hr,
posbible without operational capability impairment.
3. 30-min, full-spocd continuous safe
be possible after total loss of hlbricant shall
hse requirements apply to the entire. clutch 7
including support bearings and, often, seals.
In addition to these requirements, there exist
significant design considerations as evidenced
served failure modes in existing helicopter clutch
Splihiiui,;
) I. Brineiling due to the presence of oscillatory
que pulsations. Depending upon operating
and configuration, overrunning clutches wilt
tolerate only 10 to 30% continuous oscillatory
que. External shaft bending and radial or
loads must be eliminated from the clutches by
relatively rigid support bearings that maintain
between centricity at all times the driving and
running members. When modeling α drive system
torsional analysis, it is important to consider
clutch as α rclatively soft torsional spring.
values typically range frog 35,000 to 350,000
lb/rad (Ref. 94).
2. Excessive wear at intermediate overrunning
speeds. Maximum wear conditions usually are
countered when the output member is operating
speed full and the engine speed. is at idle Most sprag-
and roller-type clutches evidence their greatest
rates wlhen (input speed) / (output speed) - 0.5
to the product of centrifugally induced compressive
stresses and sliding velocities.
3. Failure to engage at In high speeds. many
stances reported, the second engine has failed
gage after the first has accelerated the system
ground idle speed. Both sprag and roller clutches
quire α critical friction coefficient of about
to engage. Hydrodynamic elastohydrodynamic or
film formation and/or externally induced
modes may lower friction coefficients below this
speed at synchronization, the moment of resulting

Τ. NLa
AW-•Π 706-202
in momentary or complete Subsquwnt overspeods. ad-
engine justments of input or output speeds may lead to
HoNever. abrupt engagement with attendant shock loads suf-
ficient to fail adjacent drive system components.
- may 4. False brinelling of clutch elements or support
and bearings. Clutch support bearings operate in α static
mode whenever the dlutch is engaged because both
vary with inner and outer bearing Ex- rings rotate in unison.
cycle. tcrnal vibration thus may cause fretting or false
for brinelling at the roiling element/racc contacts. The
entrapment of wear particles and sludge in the outer
is im- wear. Therefore, it often accelerates such of the race
the static capacity of the support 1.5 portant to maximize -
envelope bearings for the available and to provide
areas. stagnation without oil circulation good be shall
Design considerations peculiar to particular types
operation of clutches am given in the paragraphs that follow.
system.
Spaig σ system, 4.2.Λ4.1 Cts
clutches Sprag am the used most widely type for
other helicopter drive systems. Two variations have been
by with ob- used success. Both employ α complement of
ap- equally spaced, full-phasing sprag cams operating
between concentric circular races. Α detailed study of
tor- their geometric and operating characteristics is pre-
stresses sented in Ref. 95. Race cross sections must be suf-
safely ficiently large to prevent elastic deflection under load
tor- from increasing the sprag space by more than about
moment 0.002 in. Race hardness and case depth must be ade-
use of quate to support operating Heriuian stresses of 450,-
con- 000 to 500,0Ω psi at the sprag/inner race contact.
over- Successful applications of these designs are based
between for upon 3 10' and cycles 10' of full torque Ξ
the application without failure.
Stiffness For ,noderate to high-speed operation it is pre-
in.- ferable to use outer race power input with inner race
overrunning to reduc the centrifugally induced
sprag/racA contact stress. In such usage the sprag
en- complement should remain stationary with respect to
at the outer race and should slip at the inner race during
overrunning. This arrangement also permits centri-
wear tugal-feed lubrication through the inner race and re-
due duces the race/sprag sliding velocity for α given over-
running speed.
Both clutch types usually employ α degree of cen-
in- trifugal self-energimation by virtue of sprag center of
to en- gravity (CG) offset with respect to their ,.ontact
engagement to axes. This can cause some with problems
rt- high-speed because applications the drag torque
and be 0.05-0.07 (power loss) wear may excessive.
oil The two dutch types differ in some characteristics.
vibratory For example, one user two concentric cage elements
level to separate the sprags, while the other uses α single
cage. in outer The double-cage type uses an inner race
4-61