specificstion. The primary chafhasis is upon power
transmission geazing ratier than torque gearing (tigth
load/low spced, as in actuaior or hoist spplications)
or acoxsory goaring. The latter is diccusted briefly in
par. 4-5.
4-2.3.1.1 Gaas Limktations
Sucoessful helicopter gear designs usualiy have
employed counter-forma! involute spur, heical, and
apirai bevei configurations.
Some applicasions, notably the Westiund WG-13,
have usec conformal circular arc helical tooth forms.
Although somewhat superior in performancs with
tespect to surface durability, conformel gears ttave
numerous configurstional limitations, ε.γ., operating
center distance is very erizical, and frequent!υ exhibi
reduced teoth bending fatigue strengtit. Anaytical
techniques used for involute tooth strcngth ar.nlysis
are not well-suited for circular arc teeih, althougn an
excellent anslytical finite elemens approach to bend-
ing stress calculation may be found in Ref. 50. The
need for three-dimensional analysis is described in
Ref. 51. This gear form is particularly sens'tive to
center distance variaticn uniess consideran!* mis-
match of tooth curvature is used between pit:icn and
gear. The immediste result of this practice is α con-
siderable increase in the inaxinaum Hiertzian stress
with an att-ndant reduction in cke theoreticcl sur-
face durability of the pinion. The defection inhercnt
in the elastic reaction of the loaded tooth introduces α
small degres of slip that furiner reduces the theo-
retica! pitting endurance (par. 4.2.1.1). Conforma)
gears are of considerable interect from & research and
development visvpoint, but at present, design
od π jo pu o
mit ± nu aningful design discuscion of this configuia-
tion.
The relative efficiencics of the various spur, heli-
cal. and spiral bevel tooth forans were discussed in
par. 4-1.2.τ.1. The high sliding and resultant power
loss and limiaed load-carrying capacity of crossed
can:σ eliminaie their usefulnçss excxpt in accessory
drive spplications.
4-1.2.1.2 Gear Acalysis
Succussful detail involute gear design analysis re-
quircs an understanding of ihe relative risks of the
three failure modes (par. 4-2.1.1) under the par-
ticular operating cond-tions for each specific gear
appication. Initial insight may be obtainad by
reviewing the regions of dominant distress as shown
in Fig. 4-20. based upor: Ref. 42. This graphic reis.
tionship reflecte the characteristics of cacc-hardened

APCP 706-202
precision kelicoptor grais operasing in synthotic tur-
bine lubricants. The relative positions oi each zonal
derarcution wii vary & α function oi the diameral
pitch Π. prcssure angke $. contact ratio, root fillet
formn, surface finish, α.nd material-procscing charsc-
teristics of each individual design. Fig. 4-20 repre-
sents reasonably accirate estimates for & standard
proportion, Π = 8.5, 35 × 61 tooth sec of fuit fillet
fornt, ground flank, carburized AMS 626) involute
spur gears.
The variation in the thrce failure mods rclation-
shipe when all factors are consiant except tor dia.
Retra: pitch may tec scen in Fig. 4-21 (Ref. 33).
TOOTH BREAKAGE Λ WIT
ELDING ANO
*EARLIMI
GE AF TORQUE PIN TING LMiT
SCORING LIMIT
SUCCESSFUL OPRFATION
NO SIGNIEICANT WEAR (WITH PROPER LUBRICATION)
FITCH LINE VELOCITY
Figure 4-20. Graphic Relstionsbip — Failure Modes
— Load os Velocit:
CORDITIONS CEF :DISTANCE 12 ν.
SPEED PRESSURE ANGLE 22.5 10,00 fρam
RECULZION RATIO
TOOTH BREAKAGE LMIT
GEAR TOXQUE PITTING LIRT
SCORING LMIT
12 10 9 : 6
QIANETRAL PITCH φ& … in."*
Figure 4-31. Grepbis Relacionsbip — Failue Moder
— Load vs Tocth Sias
4-35