AMCP 706-292
trade-off procedurc, it should de possible to obtain α
blade sirfoil that represents an optimum configura-
tion for the specific halicopter mission.
Blade tip geometry has been found to fave impor-
tant effocts upon overall rotor performance. Early
studies genc-ally used constant chord sip covers wiih
flat, semiround, or other types of curvature. These
sudics indicatod that limited performance benefit
was obtainod with tip covers that had complicated
curvatures and were thus difficult to manufacture.
The major performance gain of thesce tip covers. as in-
dicated by the rotor ift to drag Λ/Δ usually could bc
traced to an increase in rotor radius. More recent
studics have explered ewept Icading and trailing
aiges in ai effort to reduce the tip vortex velocity and
strength. Thesc results have shown that α planform
LOCATICN OF
MAXIUM THICKNESS RATIO * Vc
THICKNESS
LEADING ME AN CAMGER F,INE
RADIUS CHORLY INE
CHORD C
LOCAVION CS
MAWM - MAXIMLM CAMBER
CALABER
$TANDARD AIRFOIL-NACA 0012
THIN AIRFOIL-NACA 0006
SHARP NOSE AIRFOIL-NACA 632015
SLAB SIDE AIRF OIL
CAMBERED AIRF OIL
DROOP NOSE AIkFOIL
Figure 5-28. Typical Helicopter Rotor Biade Airfoiis
5-40

tapered blsda tip doas reduas he tip vorigs aad hanoe
both θ: corrcaponding noiae and the osclflatory
loads originating rear the tip of the blade. In ackition.
the aft swecp of ths leading edge dalays the effocts of
compressibility. as with σ fixod wing. This allows an
increase in forward spsed fo. fixed values of rotor
speed and available power. Other attempts at blade
tip grometry modification to docrease the tip vortex,
suct: as installing slots or holes, have no: proved
succcssful.
The applicability cf standerd. two-dimensional air-
foil data in rotor anaiysis is crestionable whenever
the shed tip vortex aj proaches the following blade.
Becausz the blade tip gcomctry has such α strong in-
Nuence on the tip vortex, the all:wable spatial rela-
tionship between the vortex and bisde for future
high-speed helicopters shou!δ br analyzed for various
tip configurations. Recent flight tests have indicatad
that thc oscillatory airloads tend to be concentrated
at the blade tips. Most harmonics are character-
ized by higher lo&ding at the tip due to the knpul-
sive sature of tip vortex interference. In nonsteady
maneuvers, the local conditions vn the following
biadc tip are changing rapidiy due to the vortex effect
on the angle of attack. Therefore, this radial segment
of blade does not behave as two-dimensional wind
tunnel data woald suggest, and time-dependent air-
foil section characteristics should be uscd in the ana-
lysis of aerodynamic loads and rotor perforn:ance.
Two-dimensional static tests show that ie low
Mach nurnber stall of thick airfoils of ærtain series is
α leading-edge phenomenon. This stall is character-
ized by α sudden separation of fiow over the entire
upper airfoil surface, and resuits in an abrupt change
in the lift curve slope. Also associate with this effect
is an instantancous nosedown pitching moment. No
warning occurs that would in ticate stall is inminent.
This instantanecus effect does not occur in two-di-
:nensional tests of thin aitfoils. Rather, α gradual *
change in lift curve slopc rakes piace, along with α
more gradual incrcasc in nosedown pitching .noment
due to stall. Many investigaions have been con.
ducted as to the effects of nonsteady aerodynemics
on various airfoil sections. These tests indicate that,
in the dynamic environnrent of increEaing angle of er-
tacx with time, stall as indicated by α lous .. list &:cs
not occur in the manner predicted fsom static tests.
When α sharp loss of lift coes occur due to leacig-
adge separation, the resulting impact is highly
coupled to the dynamic response of tie biade in tor-
sion. For instance, α fixed impuls: duc to & sudaen .
loss of lift on thc retreating blade muy bgvt & greuter ...
effect on & rotor sy:'em heving both & bow control
stiffness and α torsionally soit blade. The tora:3nal