AMCP 706-202
held in place mechanically, they more proper!y might
be called gaskets.)
All effective scalants inust have a high ultimate
elongation and a low inodulus in order to ac-
commodate expansion and contraction of the joint
being scaled. Most commercial sealants have thesc
qualities. They vary widcly, however, in thcir Gegrec
of recovery, ranging from near 0% recovery (or 100%
plastic flow) for a permanently soft putty to nearly
100% recovery for a cross-linked (cured) elastomer.
This property is important because a low-recovery
sealant, once compressed, must accommodate subse-
quent joint expansion entircly by its clongation, or it
will fail. A compressed, high-recovery seaiant will re-
turn, as the join: expands, to its original dimension
before it begins to elongate in tensian.
Of the various chemical types of scalants, on!y
polysulfides, urethanes, and silicones are currently of
importance in the aircraft industry. These are all
high-recovery ciastomers when cured.
Pulysulfides are most commonly used in heli-
copiers. wherc they act as both sealants and aero-
dynamic fairing compounds. They have excellent ad-
hesion characteristics and resisiance to soivenis and
fucls, weathering and aging. and iemperaiures up to
250°F. MIL-S-7124 and MIL.-S-8802 describe the
two-part elastomeric scaling compounds with in-
creasingly severe requirements for adhesion and
resistancr to temperature and fueis. Mll-S-8784
compounds are formuiated purposely with very low
adhesion for such uses as fucl tanks access doors. A
grade for scaling electrical components is desctibed in
MIL-S-8516. One-part, noncuring. polysulfide put-
tics also are available. A materiai of this type is de-
-ido Sugj35 J0j popusiu; si 3 0c0i -S-TN Aq pouy
cal insiruments, but is uscful for various purposes.
Siliconc scalants have outstanding environmental
resistance because they are unaffected, reiatively. by
temperatures ranging from cryogenic to more than
500°F. and by moisture, ozone, and ultraviolet radta-
tion. However. because they are the most expensive
sealants. they ure used only where thesc ezcellent
properties are required. Some types also have very
good eiectrical characteristics, and are used to seul
electrical sysiems. MIL-S-23586 covers silicone
sealants for clectrical applications, and MIL-A-46106
describes à general-purpose, room-temperature-
curing adhesive-scalant for both mechanical and clec-
trical requirements. As ordinary silicones have rela-
tively poor fuel and oil resistence. fluoro-silicone
seulants should be used wbere thesc propertics are re-
quired. Both one- and two-component materials are
in common use. The former cure by absorption of at-
mospheric humidity, and, therefore, curc very slowiy
2-34

in confined areas or in thick sections. Primers usually
are recommended to permit maximum adhesion to
mesais.
Although of totally different chemical composi-
tion, polyurcthane sealants have many similarities to
the silicones. Both two-component and onc-
component moisture-curing types are common
Frimers (often silicone-based) are recommended, but. .
in this casc. primarily for retention of adhesion in
humid or water-immersion situations. Thesc sealants
exhibit complete recovery after extended outdoor ex-
posure. They also are useful in cryogenic appli-
catiors where they are surpassed only by thc sili-
cones, and in electrical applications. Polyurethanes
also have excellent oil resistance, and grcater abra-
sion resistance than any othes sealants. One problem
is loss of adhesion upon exposure to ultraviolet light.
An arca where scaling compounds frequently are
used is in edge-sealing of honeycomb sandwich pan-
els. because joint expansion and contraction are not
major considerations in this instance, relatively rigid
sealants usually are employed. These are essentially
the same materials as the cpoxy (and occasionally
urethane) pasie adiesives discusscd previousiy. Cx-
cept that microballoon (hollow microspheres of glass
or plastic) fillers frequently are used to produce a
lightweight. closed-ceil structure. Sandwich panels
also may be sealed with an edge wrapping of Fiber-
glas prepreg.
Viscous scalants msy be applicd with a varicty of
equipment, ranging from a putty knife to a com-
pletely automatic mixer-dispenser system. Fluid scal-
ants (coatings) may bc brushed or sprayed. One-
component scalants supplied in cartridges can be
appliod from manual- or ais-operated guns, or these
sealants can be dispensed directly from pails or
h dd r - e
ment. Two-part sealants can be weighed and mixed
-
penses the components according to presct ratios.
Frozen cartridges of prauixed scalant also are
availabie commerciaily: these must be stored at
-40°F antil just prior to use.
26 PAINTS AND FINISHES
2-6.1 PAINTS AND COATINCS (ORGANIC)
MiL-F-7179 prescribas in detail the manner in
which thc external and internal surfaces of a heli-
copter are to be finished. Other helpful documenis
are TB 746-93-2. MIL-STD-171 (MR). and AMCF
706-100.
Helicopiers require a Type 1 protection. i.e., pro-
tection against severe deteriorative conditions. For