.CP 706-202
is diacussod in Chapter 14. In the design of airframe
sinvcture, care must be takon to minimize the possi-
bility that α singie hit by the statod threat — including
exploaive and/or incendiary projoctilos when so
spocifiod -— will cause α cracn, craah fire, in-fight
fire, or comparably catastrophic rosuit. In the design
of structurs surrounding fuel tanks, it is cssential that
redundant loads paths be providod. The principal
load-carrying mambers may be damagod by hy-
draulic ram effocts following projectile impact, par-
ε ε -jcwe 10 ode ψy kq 2 2 1
Piercing incendiary (HEl or API) projoctile. Raf. 1
duction of vulnerabilit; to ballistic threats.
Regerdicss of the intensity of combat or the se-
verity of the ballistic threat(σ) to which α helicopter
will be exposod, the design must be crashworthy.
Crashworthiness deaign criteria for Army aircraft are
given by MIL-STD-ι290. Additional guidance and
spocific design tochniques for mocting the statod cri-
teria are provided by Ref. 2. Some of the crash-
worthincss considerations applicable, particularly to
the airfranie structure, include:
1. The incorporation of cruahable structure out-
side the occupiei zones to assist in the absorption of
impact cnergy while maintaining & protective shell
2. The incorporation of tumover structure ado-
quate to maintain the integrity of the protective shell
following impact with the ground in either * rolled
(90 dex) or invered (180 deg) attitude
3. The provision of support for the main trans-
mission and rotor mast so that the transmission is not
displaced into the the protective shell foliowing either
spocified crash conditions or the strike of α rigid
objoct by the main rotor
-de uya 'mi ps ε o uogeodicot; u
propriate, with restraints adequate to retain the crew
and other occupants within ths protective ahell
following spocified crash conuitions
5. The provision of emergency exits of sufficient
nnnnne
cupants in the minimal time available regardless of
the postcrash poeition of the helicopter. Crash-
worthiness considerations pertinent to the cargo
compartimont are discussed in par. 1!-4.2.
11-3 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
During detail design, overall layouts of the air-
frame are prepared from the preliminary deign daua
available. Final locations of the maior subsystems te
be supported by the airframe are shown, together
with directly associated assemblics such as fins,
stabilizers, and stub wings. Major subsystems are thc
power plant, tranamissions and drives, rotors and
11-4

propellers, flight controls, oloctrical symian, avionics,
hydraulics and pncumatics, instrunvontation, landirg
goar, crow stations (furnishings and oquipment), arm-
ament, armor, and protoctive devicis. Weight and
balance — as wall as operational and functionsl fac-
tore — are to be considered while locating the sub-
systems. The mounting points of cach subsytem are
arrangod so that the overall load discribution systom
of tho structure can accopt the local losd food-in most
efficientiy. Shelves, beams, frames, and bulkheuds are
types of local structuros usod to take the mounting
hard-point or fittiag loacs and to distribute these
loads into the basic structure.
Msthods of locating and attaching fittings, sup-
ports, frames, bulkhoads, skin and longeron systems,
corrvaion proioction, and eloctricai bonding are
ean ias ε
commodating the subaystams in the airframse and
applying the trado-off criteria discussod in par. 11-1.
Fig. I1-1 illustrates some of thcse structural com-
ponents.
During airframe dotail design, all areas subjoct to
repeatod high Jouds should be analyzed for the in-
sophy -— to prevent catastrophic faiiure — roquinxe
provision of rodundant lond paths so that, if one path
fails due to fatigue, the load is carriod by the ro-
maining structure until the next inepection uncovers
tbe failure.
FITTING BULKNEAD LONGERON
STRINGER
FRAME
SKIN
SUPPORTS
SHELF
Figure 11-1. Airframe Component