16-4.2.2.1 Termination Seale
Environment resistant connectors baving wire
scaling grommets shall be uaed vhenever possible;
however, potting may be usod when no connoctor
having α soaling grommet is suitable for the applica-
tion. Scaling materials should moet the applicabis en-
vironmental requiroments and sbouid be seiected
from either MIL-Σ-8516 or MIL-Σ-23586.
164.2.2.2 Cable Adapters
Α cablc clamp often is usod at the end of the cir-
cular connector to support the cable or wires and to
prevent twisting and pulling of the contact tarmi-
nations. Avoiding this motion abso heipe to roduce
the transmission of mcisture along the wire. For
applicabie cable clamps and other accessory hard-
ware, consalt the supplement to the; connoctor speci-
fication.
16-4.2.2.3 Connector Conpliags
Throe basic styles of circular connector coupling!
are usod: threaded. bayonct, and push-puli. The
bayonet and push-pull stylcs offer quick-disconnect
fcatures. Other features, or α combination of fea-
tures, sre sometimas uaad. For cxampke, : pull-to-
breakaway action may be incorporatad with the basic
coupling.
16-4.2.3 Rack and Pasel Consec or
Rack and panel connectors are used to connect α
cabie to α fixod roceptacic, α cabie to α cable, or α
module to α backplate. The common configuration is
rectangular or some variation of α roctangular shape
(scc Fig. 16-5(Β) ). Thesc connoctors are availablc in
many sizes and shapes conforming to Military Speci.
fications, and also in commercial configurations.
Refer to Tablcs 16-8 and 16-9 for listings of the mil-
tary typcs, and to the manufacturers' anv, dis.
tributers' catalogs for the commarcial typas.
16-4.2.4 Flat Conductor Cabãε Coanectors
Where flexible, flat conductor cable is used, con-
noctors of the MIL-C-55544 type (Fig. 16-5(C))
should be considerod. Thcec connectors ar: suitable
for connocting flat cablo to flat cable, to round wires,
or to printed circuit boards.
36 4.2 5 Printed Wlring Beard C_sneciors
Printed wiring boar or prinizd circuit connectors
(Fig. 16-(Δ)) normally arc not encountered in air.
eraft wiring. They ars usod fo: connecting printed
wiriog roa ds to conventionai wiring. prinied wiring
bonrds to cach ofiaer, or printod wiring boards to α

AMCP 206-222
backplate. Connoctors in accordance with MIL-C-
55302 are proferred for printod wiring bonrd ap-
plications.
16-43 TERMINALS
Common typa of terminais currently in use in-
clude Jug. eyeiet, and notched. Their installation may
be of the dip-solder, soldgriess wrap, tapar tab, taper
socket, or crimp style. Unlers otherwise specified in
the coniractual documenrs or approved by the pro-
curing activity, wire and ceble terminsds should be of
the crimp stylo.
Crimp terminale allow dirsct centact of wire and
taminal to be accomplishod by oeformstion. They
can β: installed quickly with uniform and reliable
π ν re
can be accomplished wità hand tools or with auto-
matic equipment ansd can be inspocted casify. Ti.ε
plications where osher typas would be unocceptable.
The connection is electrically sound and mechanical-
ly sirong. Howover, rousc of crimp joints is almost
impossible. common practice is to provide extra
wire length in now harnous ogaemblies so that α
damaged or defective terminal may be raplaced by
cuttirng otf the oid one and crimping on α new one.
Α MCP 706-125 providss α dotailed diacunsion of the
roquirenents and characteristics of various typer of
terminations. MIL-STD-195 defincs the marking of
connections for clectrical anerablics.
For coppsr wire, MS 25036 terminak (φ pe 11. in-
:latod) shouid be usod — except in applicstions ro-
quiring conductor temperatures sbove sos*C. Fer
such applications, uninsulated terminak (Type I).
conforming to MS 20659 and to the requirememts of
MIL-Τ-7928, ahould be uaed. For alumipuan cablc,
icr minaie coníorming to MiiL-Τ-7o99 sbould bs used.
Table 16-10 containe additional standards.
16 4.8 TERMINAL BOARDS
Wbere wire or cable junctions roquire infroquent
disconnection, or where it is neoessary to joia two or
more wires or catles to α common point, terminal
boards shou!τ be used.
Terminal boards should conform to Ms 21212.
and covers conforming to MS 18029 sbould be urod
with tion. Thoes boards rave moldad barriore and
molded-in studs. They anay be purchaaod in stenkard
kengths and cut to the length (ouraber of suds) ro-
quirod for cach installazion. Terninal board ider-
tificaticn should be in sccordance with the para-
graph tictad "Junctions" ir MIL-Ω-5088.
Buses cennecting the terminai studs should con-
form 19 Ma$ 25226.
16-19