Α--- -. _44Α
MIL-Α-46146 TYPE I SEALANT
Figure 7-14.
fication number visible on each wire without cuttin3
ties. Lacing (or tying) be done with single shall
Continuous lacing be permitted only in junction shall
boxes and panels.
The end studs used for attaching the MS 18029
minal covers cannot be used for electrical purposes.
two electrical terminals with mounting hardware arc
placed on the end studs, the self-locking feature
not engage in the terminal cover nuts.
See par. 7-8.2.1 for α further discussion of terminal
blocki;
7-7.5 ENGINE COMPARTMENT WIRING
The two major installation hazards encountered
4ngine compartment environments are heat and
I ration. Special attention should be paid to the
vibration environments of engine enclosures. Wire
gage shall be α miinimum of 20 in order to
strand fatigue breakage. Wire bundle clamps shall
spaced in close proximity so as to prevent wire
tion between clamps and possibie resultant breakage.
Crimp-type contacts be used in order shall
Sclumninate to vibration breakage due strand
capillary action,
Wire bundles in low-temperature areas (200°C
lower) of the engine compartment may be in
cordance with par. 7-7.3; in higher-temperature
and on the engine itself, open wire bundles of
rated at 260*C be used. shall
Particular care be taken to route all shall
bundles away from sharp edges, and around
ment in the engine area to allow extra room for
bration and for structural expansion and contraction
due to ambient temperatures and engine thrust.
bundles be routed and clamped well out of shall
way for engine change, and design shall take into
sideration the use of any necessary installa-
tion/removal ground-handling tools. Fire detector
elements routed, and securely clamped ghllbe
position, to eliminate crush possibilities
engine change.
7-26

SELF-LOCKING NUT
LOCK WASHER
FLAT WASHER
Terminal Strip Installation
7-7-6 DOOR HINGE WIRE BUNDLE ROUTING
ties. Electrical components mounted on access doors
v, ill require routing the wirr? bundles over the door
hinges. The wire bundles be routed so that they shall
ter- twist instead of bend, ι.ε., the bundle be routed shall
If parallel to the hinge for α distance sufficient to allow
μ he bundle to twist. Consideration should be given to
will using Teflon-cushioned clamps at the twist points to
provide added bundle mobility. Added abrasion re-
sistance at the hinge, in the form of Τ.ν . vinyl ,
tubing mnay be required.
Wire bundles that are exposed to weather and
or flight, during are opened doors when abrasion
in during ground servicing, be protected by extra shall
vi- cove.ring (such as braiding or tubing). Weather-
high- exposed braiding shall extend into the connector back
shell clamp, but, because of the wattr-wicking prop-
reduce erties of the braid, should not extend into potting or
be connector waterproofing.
vibra-
7-7.7 WIRING TO MO I,
to WNG COMPONENTS
solder it is necessary when attention is required Special τ
route wiring bundles to components such as ac-
or tuotors, missile launchets, or electronic components
ac- that move during use or storage. These bundles
areas usually flex α number of times and are critical in their
wire operation.
The installation should designed be as follows:
wire I. The wire bundle clamped firmly to the bZ shel
equip- moving component so that no movement of the wire
vi- takes place at the connector or terminal.
2. The wire bundle be under tension at shall not
Wire any point in the movement of the equipment.
the 3. The wire bundle be clamped firmly ti the shall
con- fixed structure at α position whek ε if there is any mo-
tion, the wires will twist and not bend.
4. The attach point of the fixed structure must be,
into whenever possiblen at the center of the arc formed by
during the moving equipment.
5. If the fiued point car not be at θ: center of the