I-)
with coordinated be runs must The control
layouts. scaled in airframe the entire with other and
control the improves routing straight-line Direct.
and and weight, friction reduces response, system
muest be that factors Other crcass reliability.
vulnerability are layout system control during sidered
jamming to small arms and automatic weapon fire,
by foreign objects, rigidity, strcngth, accessibility
service, inspection and and techniques to prevent
co. rect assembly. All pertinent inforriation should
clearly or, shown the smul!-scale layouts in order to'
verify the design feasibility.
various design options are devuloped, the AS
ternative configurations should be evaluated
study. The parameters in means of α trade-off
study may include - but are not limited to --
cost, formance, reliability, safety, weight, use of
dard parts, logistics, maintainability, and vulnerabili-
ty. In such α study, weighting factors may be assigned
to the various parameters. However, because
weighting factors affect the outcome of the study,
τ-.. must be assigned judiciously.
selected the upon study trade-off of the The results
uiuaii configuration should be uanicUilly cvaluaitd
is to review of the purpose The review. design .)
applicable the and configurations seleted the that
are test requirements and specifications, mock-up,
during established objectives with accordance
and contract program that and design, preliminary
cost, rtliability, performance, for requirements
of ease and standardization, maintainability, ty,
be met. will or arc spection
Actutoi -ρ 6.5.2.1 Pov to Coetrols Pilot'σ
standards design of discussion comprehensive Α
and requirements for that portion of the helicopter
controls and pilot'ρ the between system control flight
MIL-F-9490 in found is actuator power the
conflicts minor are there Although MIL-F-18372.
between these specifications, the helicopter system
of extent the define will generally specification
applicability.
system nonrotating control the The loads in
at all in the system loads present of those sist
and any loads due to pilot forces, operational
Constant loads fed back from the rotor blades.
preloads or rigging loads, and include system
weight. due to component
required system loads the control values of The
given 4-9.8.3, design are in par. AMCP 706-201. )
at applied effort loads the pilot arm Included
._. control input, together with their reaction points,
SCriteria systems, for dual control are provided
α system, within of loads cate distribution systems,

AMCP 706-202
syterns. control and power each
Military the of requ.'rmareis ti. to addition In
the 706-201, 4. AMCP of Chapter and Specification
•.dmign general and requirements of following iist in-
 cr helioo of dsign to tic applicable are practkm con- 1
systems. control
I. Push-pull rods, bellcranks, and lovers:
for α. Each bolt, screw, nut, pin, or other fastener
in- whose los could jeopardize the safe aperation of the
be helicopter incorporate two beparate locking shAwl
device. The festener and its locking devices should
no, be affecti4λ adversely by cnvironmenmal con-
ditions. α&-
by β. Impedance bolts be used where loss of α shall
failure. bolt can cause α catastrophic the
χ. per- Rod assemblies should be desigrned with only
stan- one adjustable end fitting. The adjustable rod end
check nut should be ,ock-wired where the rods are
subject to vibration or to hiph-frequency load re.
the versals.
The natural frequencies of push-pull rods δ.
should be checked against the forcirig frequencies of
is free the system that to assure order in the rotor(σ)
α from on.ν_. μ
cov,- longest tube diameter and lagest The ε. insure
consideratiois strength and weight with sistent
ul- , reduced provide to order in be used should in
nerabiLty. the
the of clevisjo;nts the in Maximum clearance φ.
for allew provided so as to sa be tubes push-pull safe-
disconnected. are the controls when overtravel in-
universals: and tubes 2. Torque
tubes of torque α. The natural frequencies
of forcing frequencies against the checked be should
from free is system the that assure to rotor(σ) the
njtusr .
mis- where ud be should joints Universal β.
tubes. torque between exists alignment and
be may assembly joint universal double Α C.
provided angular velocity, obtain constant used to
that: their
90 joints is one of the yoke of driving The (1)
of the other. driving yoke from the dcg oftiet con-
the angle. seme operatwd at joint is (2) Each times,
same plane. are in the (3) All shafts flight
loadL and quadrants: 3. Cables, pulleys,
α. Cables and pulleys should be used only when loads
using over α system can be shown advantages distinct
rods. push-pull for
β. Cables tend to twist over each pulley. the If
pulley, cable another onto pulley rides one twist from each
wear will result. Pulleys thus should be far spaced
ruus over so of cable that no ,egment apart dupli- enough
travel. full pulley during than one more
"6-23