Mll-Σ-6:61 rgoirndaes ave tpecifinl in tonmes at
the tieme maugouery for tibe mstion te cinuu ie as asapis-
tude or to sclisve balf esrpliude, asrs tberoiore are
adapnak' reschil; to symens annlgas tocimiques.
Solstion to tie bincariass vusicte equmations of mo-
tioa axlaibii boch fregusncy aced rete of docay charac-
teriatics isodopanunat af tihe musger in wlictk tihe veisi-
cle is disturiod. Caaugins the typar of cisaurimace
changos only thne mngsitudie of she rougausor: thu fie-
-3σ (fguz3 jo co) Árp o 9γ gge Axnb
main unciloctod. The chevacttristic roots of tire
aqantions of motion are α anemure of this siadskity.
and may be plotted on the consplax piar. Tacac plots
have the aaine format as Jo root locus plots uocd by
aurvo systom analysis.
6-2.1.2.1 Row Fiees
Α cnaracteristic root pict fo: an unaugmented heli-
coptar is shown in Fig. 6-2. 1he vertical scale is the
damped natural frequcecy or complex par of the
roor, tbe Ieft balf (ncgative abscises) dcaignates the
sabic real par of the rovt witi: the tine to half
anpliude as scalod, and the righ. balf (posicive mcione) dignes an wmevie nre iaauon win
time to couble ansplistade as indecas.si.
The VFR coterion boundars given in MdIL-H-8501
abao is plotod in thas figurc. Root locatiot σ :o the kett
of thr boundary bac setiat υ uae spcaficator. uzitcria.
Thee sooo-ordaz systan damping ratx. anx sither
tbc undamped ov tennpec nsaural frequeacies of tixe
ploued root., Ale obiainabie. The undaraped nauurz.:
fnquency σ, is the. magnitud. of the raunus vecto:.
Expat.en.al oata or coanp.ites soi ticns oi tn
equauons of motcnn may be π coited χ reily is. this
forma. so as to inçucate systes. proxirz. υ ro α spe: +-
fication timit. Experimentai data are est.smated eith=σ
by Beog α step response and extracting be dampiz-8
and frequenc (by assuming α second-oreer system,.
er by α.iulog onpater matening.
Typica! pious ure shown in Fi. 6-2 for α range 3ι
arspoeds fron. tover to cruising. ign:. Ir. spo ve tne
heucopie: exnions an unstable osc.datory raose of
sec to aoune ampliude, ana α single canverge:..
ajerodi; roor. As θ. airzpees inacreases. be sing
rost moves to the right and! become:- α diver,. α.. ro.
wnuite the other oscillatory root becones stpne auag
drcreaues in froquency.
-2.1.2.: Mode sac Raqaured Dampatg
The Gan ping tequrenen fos eitner VFR or IFK
frequentiy may be ercesde: al: only mino: ma-
plication ac inurcast in os. Ths dumping mby de
inxroand lpt sivroc rousons:
1. Gestraly, weli-daanpec: roots sre less likely to
6-

couple sitik oélsr sxuree of rupoute, or to respond
edhenp irqg an wq 'soseqmp spogod o
'poce
2. Good danping raducus pilet workiond.
3. Augsocatasion systenus beving good damging
suritaat miaor subayntam duierioratioa.
Δ'anping rogairoments scualty are aseocicied wvi:ie
goq sog sooq pare 'sesocas go sooen seqnagreal *
copurers ace alrsoet iduntical to thone for fixed-wisg
aircraft, excapu for the hover conditiune.
Α belicopier with stsbility augmeatatizn exbibits
in hover & longitudiual, short-penod raodk, vibichs is
prodicusinansly σ pisching responsc. The seode should
be aloqaataly castpes since it is thr piloe'σ prione
costroi moaic both in kover and in forward figiht.
The piloi ruruly wili rate the vehicke ss satinfactory
(Couper Rating of 3.5) unleas the modal darqping is
greauter than 0.3, aszd will wocept α valuc of 0.3 only
whon thc frequescy is the asost favorable for α given
flight iest experiment.
Thcse is no targe vaiue for the short-pariod
natural freguency: tain might be cuablishod besi in
simulsirons anú protolype flighi tcst. Thare ate spper
limits, however, becsust inereasing the frequcncy
sends to sggravate sny existizeg control crose-
cupling or coupliag into otbar modes.
There shall be no objectionatie Aligite characteristic
attributable so poor spoed scabiliay (phugoid mode).
Any long apxriodic or kona-period (esreier than 10
soc) osciliatory divergcnces, ss allowert in: she present
Aail-H-8501. compromise spced stability axid thus
π.ace al. added workioad on the pilo:. Suick-fixed
σ cd stability demands that all roots exhibrit stable
durapung. Helicopter laterai-directional figtit dy-
na nics generaliy exdabit roli subsidense, apivai, and
Dr. ch roil modes similar to those of fixed-wing air-
cra :. The spirai snd Dutch roll modes mnay oocur at
two or morc frequencias in helicupters with lateraf
axis siability augmentation.
R. δ subsiaence is an apreriodi: response, with the
ame consiant set primarily β; thie aonnt oi roll
damg ag The higher the Ganiping. tite shorter the
tuxe cons ant. Tue requirement for minimnn Gamp-
ing is set by MiL-tt-8σ01, ε.γ for α typical, light
(25.0-τ3) veincle uncer IFR conditions, tine require-
mer.. is α C3-se. tu:me constant. For cargo heli-
o pt irs. the IlR spcuificatior aisows time constants
ir. ε xa. of 1 sec. Test resuits fron. α nap-of-the-carth
flhgh ty,xcal of α we-pos: α reconnaissance heli-
copte sh 3ω α distinct advan.age ν reducing the roll
conus. 1 tn.ac conatan: from C 3 & 0.12 soc. This test
and σ ppluzuental data on ro. control response are
daa.ε. in Refa. 2 and 3. Thc valu: of roli damping