Σ'qk
types used wit 4 Pro.:
itaxim.urn 5. in- or of antennas separation -patiai
cables tet fetrencproduc'iog
away equipment nonintcrferinig of Cr]tOaling 6.
sources. ý;nowvn interference from
Satirce Suppresslon and SRsceptibity Reduc- 74.5.3
tion
routing to aid cable using physical isolation After
for EMI additional techniques maximum extent, the
reduction include: source and susceptibility
Grounding and bonding Λ.
2. Cable and cquipment shielding
3. Filtering,
of ap- Source suppression is the application
or filtering at the bypassing, decoupling, propriate
at α point of maximum sus- source of interference or
ceptibility.
7-6.5.3.1 Groundlig and Bonding
helicopters is the fundamental requirement for Α
low-impedance of α well-bonded, establishment
. %ν;- ,,ρ-...ll! Α exte•ν•δ• all τ ground pOmni τ,
re- plane prevents EMC problems potential ground
ground and potentials ground from unequal suiting
of equip- loop currents, and reduces the possibility
energy undesired or rmceiving ment transmitting
applications are and filter that shield while insuring
effective,
sub- various in which method to the refers Bonding
integrated or conneced are or structures systems
the de- avoids Bonding mechanically. and electrically
potentials between adjacent velopment of electrical
of flow hl,mogenous provides and parts, metallic
between currents subsysiteis and radio frequency
provides detail requirements MIL-Β-5087 structures.
systems. aspects of airbornt for all bonding
7.6.5.3.2 Stdelding
suppression in- of practic.λ EMI Α major area
or cable of component the application volves
requires investi- use of shielding Effective shielding.
of of the nature signals, and interference gation of the
the of whether The question sl.ielding. metallic
or re- rt ceptor is prvented from radiating source or
attention. deserves equel signals undesited ceiving
;nter- the upon dependent is Metallic shielding
ε.γ., the electrical or mag- sgnal component, fering
for which α desired The lowest frequency nctic field.
"shielding of determines the type required normally is
) shielding material.
to can be used High-permeability materials im-
prove shielding effcctiveness for low-frequency, low-
magnttic fields. Aluminum, copper, or impedance

MqP 706-202
audio above shielding will provide materials ferrous
fields). (electrical frequencies
is de- interference used to contain Shielding
attenuation (absorption) primarily upon the pendent
an becomes loss Reflection the shield. of properties
important consideration for exclusion interfering of
signals.
enclosure can: pro- Discontinuities in α shielded
radiation. Venti- path for EMI vide an entry/exit
dial access χ*vers, panel meters, lation openings,
containment switches are possible EMI shafts, or
problem areas.
Interference coupling of electronic subsystems can
be reduced by careful selection of interconnecting
to cables. Types of interconnecting cables available
twisted pair, unshielded wire, the designer include
(single or double), twisted shielded pair, shielded wire
multiple shield). (single or aid coaxial
cables to reduce The selection of interconnecting
interference coupling and audio crosstalk will be, de-
the operating fre- upon physical isolation of pendent
level&. the power and susceptibility range, and quency
protection wire provides α shielded In general.
the twisted pair re- against eietricatl fiellds, whilz
fields. to magnetic susceptibility duc-σ
from cn- maximum EMI shielding To achieve
to termi- necessary it is shielded cables, and closures
unipotential to the helicopter cffectively natc them
single-point and Both multipoint plane. ground
design features. certain provide systems ground
pro- may (floating shield) grounding Single-point
of inter- possibility where the the best approach vide
cir- sensitive low-frequency ference coupling with
in cable, α shielded When concern. of is α matter cuits
the orircit, is ground-δ at both ends for α sensitive
plane in the ground circuits, power frequencies return
signal interference in the induce audio frequency can
wires.
equipment is dis- When electronic and electrical
shown that areas, experience has tributed over large
for RF frequenries. multipoint grounding is superior
at shield grounding involves Multipoint grounding
points at immediate all cables, and ends of all both
through equipment. runs the cable where
for in- of proper shielding techniques Α ,plikation
in the be performed should alleviation terference
areas: following
component source or sensitive I. The radiation
bonded metallic in α properly should be installed
limited openings. with housing
field should directed away be 2. The magnetic
by low- use of components or wiring from sensitive
reluctance, high-permeability matarial.
shielded, or shielded and twisted cable 3. Twisted,
7-23