4-2±2..3 Compklee Elhadc sod Dynaimic:
Dynamic forme associated with high-speed
tion not only change bearing opra~ting charac-
for the greatly from those assumed teristics
design, but impose limiting also speeds
failures sliding or con~tact slip heat due to
tion. Fig. 4-31 shows that centrifugal acceleration
not only increases the outer high speds
*load for contact bearing, but results an angular
The definitive ferent contact angles at each race.
* for ball rotation is dependent upon contact fth
the greater "grip" has on the ball. At high speeds
forces the the outer race, which then may be
race contact into gross sliding. Also, because the
bearing the coincident with is not rotation
revolution, α gyroscopic procession moment
duced. For balls of large size and high contact
this moment may induce complete precession
often with immediate overheating failure. Analyses
the governing forces are treated in Ref. 90.
computer solutions employing the equations
elastic reference also may consider the
in combination with shaft and housings 'of
and the rolling deflections between the race zian
ment they influence the load as dstribution
OUTER RACE
ELLIPSE PGERTRTCONTACT
LOAD
Π"
Α TOFO INNE ROACE ZOE
RACE Π OUTER ,.
*THRUTA LOAD CINE
0..~(N GSRPIN)C
OWT
~--φ.
-~ --
Γ. Ncq3. -- Dm Pa
Π1.
PURE SLIDING O
RACE CONTACT IILLIPSIL OWIRN
__________4.
4-31. H~gh Speed Ampler Contact Figure
TIMMuI SekariNg Forme
4-36

Solutione number of individual bearings on α shaft. common
opera- special case Α of elrztic deflection influence upon
F
calculated life occurs in planetary idler bearings
ζ. with the idler gears. As whose outer races are integral static
based upon α result of the squeeze effect of the sun and ring gear
genera- radial load components, and of the moment upon the
at gear centroid δ-ie to tangential tooth loads, con-
occurs and may create ad- ring/ball siderable deformation
in dif- ditional bearing loads of sufficient magnitude to re-
section proper- axis dine bearing life significantly. Rim
internal clearances also have strong effects thatt ties and
this upon resultant life. Typical functions are shown in0
4-32 (Ref. 91). inner Fig.
ball
Contiols Drawing of 4-2.1.2.3 axis
is in- Confidence cannot be placed in the reliability or
of angle, performance α drive transmission bearing without
slip, α thorough evaluation of the important charac-
of teristics of the bearitig as defined for the specific
may con- be General application. Bearing characteristics
this trolled of drawing, secondary specification, or manu- by
depending upon in- deformation facturers' source documents -
the Hert- dividual prefcrcnce. The following are minimal
for such control: guidelines ele-
α amnong mincrial:V 1. !.1Mw
α. Chemistry (
Method of melt β.
χ. Certification limits
from ingot reduction Size δ.
Grain orientation χ. SPIN COMPONENT
Thermomnechanical φ. processing limits ap- if
ia.
roesscnrl
 DCeabrtifation. . bfPR
OLN
χ. Properties rncluding microstructure, hard-
ness
δ.CsP. crPrprt. hr apial
χ. Λ.imits on reprocessing
Retained austenitc, where applicable, or
Serialization and identification:
 . Traceability
β. Location of codes and numbers
χ. Process step for application
Match δ. marks for high pcints of eccentricity
sets precision on
ε. CID code marking for verification of proper
staczking of matched sets.
Dimensioning technique:
α. Applicable ABEC and RBEC grades
β. Pitch diameter; rolling eleme-.it dimensions.
Dal race curvature contact '; angle (unmounted); radial
clearance; shoulder heights; flushness and gsjing