ABAPP 206-202
5-4.4.2.2.2 Retatieg System
A grest Coal of ruaanch bas boen accomplished
duriag the extension of the helicopter spsed range by
compounding. Ref. 32 is a good sunimary of the car!y
work in this area. This work shovod that increaaing
advance rstics and blade tip Mach numbers roquire
prog rossive unloading of thc rotor and reduction of
rotational spocd — even down to zero. The associ-
ated dynamic phenomena ars continuous and
trackabir until zero rotor spcod is approachod.
At high advance ratios, thrust and flapping cocirol
are difficult bocausc of high sanaitivity to gusts. The
principal dyramic probirm is limit-cycke fiapping in-
stabitity. This inatability produces both harmonic
and nonharmonic flapping. the latter being visibie as
* weaving cf the tip path planc. The history of this
probiem is skctchod and tie picture clarifiod in Ref.
33, which ahows two azimuthal regions of instability.
one on tho advaucing side due to negative spring rate,
and one on the retreating side duc io negative dainp-
ing. Measures for stabiizing both are discussed.
5-4.5 ACOUSTIC LOADING
Conventional rotcrs, bucause of their relatively iow'
dixk loadings, experience negligible acoustic loading.
Airflow over the tiade surfaces can reach sonic ve-
locity locally and morientarily produce a shock
vave. Aerodynamic Josding variations occo. pri-
marily at the blade tip, which generate the characier-
istic acoustical sigrature referred to as blade alap.
Rotors have operated in such an environment for
yoars with no evider. x of structural fatigue causzd by
either acrodynamic or acoustic loading. Blade slap
has teen shown to be drag-reiated, hence. the
acoustic iosding occurs inpiane aiong the axes of
maximum suength of the blade skin.
Proprotors and propellers Iocated in close proxim-
ity to cither a fuselage or a wing can experience -ome
degree of acoustic losding. Howeves, the rotor nir
presurc impingement on chs fuselage or wing struc-
ture is an order of magnitude more significant thar:
acoustic losding of the rotating syster).
Tail rotors locatod closs to a tail boom enparience
aerodynamic knuling cauued by the partiai blockage
of airlow anc: the intafzreme by the fin with the
blade surfece pruaure ficld. As with oonventional
main rotors, there is no evidence of mcasurable
ecoustit toading. Ductod fans used ar antitorque
devices, because of their relatively high disk loe lings,
may pioduce grrater aooustic losding than con-
ventional tail rotors. However, the duct suirounáing
the fan eaperienoes higher loadings than do the fan
blades.
5-24

5-4.6 GUST LOADINGS
The nood for moaningful gust loading specifica-
tions has increased with the development of high-per-
formance helicopters and compounds. The first de-
finitive work was Ref. 33, in which the nature of toc
problem was clucidatod and some solutions were
offered. A more precisc trcatment requirod more so-
phisticatod analytical methods. One such mcthod (an
extension of the rotorcraft fight sinulation Eicthod
discussed in par. 5-4.1.1) was deveiopex and uard for
an extensive study of thc problem (Rcf. 34). This
reference also revicws the state of tne art. The prob-
lem of helicopter responsc to gusts and some of the
design censideraticns are discussed in pars. 5-4.6.1
and 3-4.6.2 that follow.
5-4.5.1 Discuasios of the Gust Problem
Rotary-wing aircraft experience milder reactions to
gusts than do most fixed-wing aircraft. One of the
carlicst reports oi this difference presents qualitative
copter with side by-side rotors and thc < ncr iut a
fixed-wing girplane. A similar test wes concucted
later by NACA with instrumentation to mcazure nor-
mal forccs in both types of aircraft flyitg through tur-
bulent air.
The relstively mild reaction of the rotary-wing sir-
craft is not substantiated by the simple theoretical ex-
prssions currently in use, particularly those that
evolved from fixed-wing experience. Fig. 5-18 shows
an example of gus: lord factors resulting from harp-
edged gusts, computed oy the procodure in Ref. 35.
This procedure ic conservative in that it negkects stall
and compressibility efiects and assumes instantane-
ous changrs in rotor angle of sttack, induced veloci-
ty, and blade ping.
MIL-S-8698 provides a gust alleviation factor by
which theoretica. gust losc factor may be roduced.
a
NO COMPRESSIBILITY OR STALL
60 Ips SUDDEN GLIST
GUST-LOAE 0
0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4
ADVANCE RATIO μ
Flyyre 5-18. Gost Load Factor Conputed for the
UH-1B Helicopter Uang Liucar Tbeory