aspucts of propeller design, determination of blade
fatigue strength must be basod upon both compr:
honsive fatigue tosts of full-scale blades and vibra-
tory blade stresscs mcasurod on the aircraft under
conditions represcntative of service operations.
The number of vibratory stress cycles accumu-
latod in the service life of α propelier is so great that
vibratory strescs below the endurance limits are
nocassery for most operating conditions, For in-
stance. assuming α 1Π vibratory strrss and α rota-
tional spocd of 1500 rpm, 9 × 10° cycles are accumu-
lated in 100 hr of service.
Somc momontary or intermittent operating con-
ditions can occur in which stress amplitudes excced
the endurance limit. Each cycle of such stress uscs up
some of the fatigue life of the propeller, and it is
nocessary to cstablish conservatively that the ac-
cumulaton of thesc cycles can be tolerated. Current
practice is to appiy Miner'σ Rule for cumulative
fatigue damage.
Vibratosy stress limits must be derived primarily
fromn controlled laboratory tests for full-scalc pro-
pelier blades, suppienented by apecimen tests.
Ground and flight mcasurement of propeller vi-
bratory siresses during aircrati operation is describedi
in Chapier 8, AMCP 706-203. The instrumentation
roquired, many of the co: iderations involved in
planning and executing α vibratory stress survey, ard
the interpretation of results are included. Certain of
thesc subjects are summarized in the paragraphs that
follow, with emphasis on the interpretation of resulis.
An example of the application of Miner'σ Rulc is in-
cluded by reference.
5-8.5.1 Endurance Llealt and Other Strecturat
Teating
5-8.5.8.1 Specianes Toots
Cosriderable information about the fatigue
sirongth of propetier blade material can be obtainod
from specimen teus. Α discusion of types of iesting.
mumber of sasapica, and statistical intarprctation of
fatigue sest data can be found in Ref. $7.
5-E.3.1.3 Fuil-ecade Toats
Sperimen testing can cousplanent, but nover
repioce, tasting of full-scale production compononts.
Rocauee of the larg : sipe, fabr ation differonoes, and
differences in airees statc, fuli-ale comptsonts tend
to kave botie lowor smeea fatigue strengths and
grauies gustier thas convantional laboratory spaci-
suons. Α typical ilicestsrntion of thsis difforesce is sbown
in Fig. Σ-4σ, wiaare tie msan fatigue strength of fuail-
acade componesle at larger nunbere of cycies is about
σ ee o gq
5-7

mmlL.
MEAN
SPLCIMENS - ± 2 oLIM:TS
AMPLITUDE
CYCLIC STRESS FULL SCALE
CYCLES TO CRACK DETECTION - LOG SCALE
Figure 5-48. Fatigue Strength Difference Becween
Speclmen and Fuli-scale Tests
(represented by the cocfficient of dispersion; ι.ε., the
ratio of the standard deviation in fatigue strength to
the mean fatigue strength, at α particular number of
cycics) is generally in the range of 5-10% for
specimens, but may be as high as 13-20% for full-scale
componenis.
The types of full-ecalo tests to be conducted depend
upon π.evious tests on similar components, antici-
pated service loadings and environments, and related
service experience. The various rogions of the blade
— tip, mid-blade, airfoil transition, shank and reten-
tion — must de considered as to their shapes and
fabrication details, their steady and vibratory
ioadings, and their environmental exposures. The
requirenents for fatigue tosting of propeller blades
are similar to those for rotor biades discussed in par.
5-7 and in Chapicr 7, AMCP 706-203.
5-8.5.2 Fight Leade Teet Dete and Fetigee Life De
turinination
5-8.5.2.1 Abcrant Teats
The instrumentation roquir.δ for measuring biade
vibratory stresses in flight is describod in Chapter 8,
AMCP 706-203.
In general, survey tests are programmod to on-
compass all significant service oporasing conditioas,
with adoquate allowance for variability and, whare
possibic, for future change and growth. Tbe rosults of
α propoler vibratory stross survey customarily are
summarized in plots of vibratory stros against the
airspoed, power or time. The curvas usually are
sclocced to show the bighast stresnos in the tip. the
mid-blade, and the shank rigioas of the blade. An
examplc of α strew summary plot is ahowe in Fig. Σ-
fatigue life analysis.