706.202 ___MCP
APU may used for providing emergency be of particular components, α An To aid in the selection
list of commonly used comnponents, and an oper- rneumatic power. The APU shiould be designed to
stional description of each. is provided in par. 9-3.2. use stored χ'mpress,-δ air for starting and then to
Refs. I through 4 arc additional sources of informa- provide α limited amount of power for the essential
4 tion corn- regarding design and analysis of pneumatic subsystems of the helicopter.
poncnts aaud systems.
v
DESIGN COMPONENT 9-3.2 Redundancy System 9-3.1.2
Compresirs Air 9-3.2.1 are essen- that services operated pneumatically Ali
in tial to safety flight or landing be provided The air compressor maintains the pneumatic shall
with emergency devices per MIL-Π-5518. The emer- system pressurization during flight. It can be driven
completcey gency systems must be independent of the by direct drive from the helico'pter engine gearbox, by
main system up to, but not necessarily including, the an electric motor, or more commonly, by α hydraulic
actuating cylinder or motor. These emergency sys- motor powered by the utilit) hydraulic system. Com-
tems should be designed to be actuated onty by corn- pressor operation usually is controlled by α manifold
cltctro- the compressor cutting pressure sensing switch, with pressed air, direct mechanical connection,
mechanical units, gravity, or combinations of these, in when system pressure drops to α preset minimum
Where dual pneumatic lines are used to providc and cutting out at α prescet maximum.
emergency operation of α mechanism, the classified normal Compressors can be into two basic
shcll and emergency lines be separated by as great α groups: positive displacement, and dynamic, or non-
distance as is practicable, so that the possibility of positive, displacement.
both lines being ruptured by α single projectile is
Displacement Positive 9-3.2.1.1 in order necessary valves are shuttle remote. Where
C α by confining pressure is increased an In this type, systems to normal and emergency to connect .he
α o ,ω in prnoreL*Wsivelv dirninishini svace. There are .. - • .... ν *κ. '-.- u in ω..τ, on ... . .. α_ ... Σ u,.... ι,.:.τ
-
from cylinder. The emergency line tPe shuttle valve number of different arrangements, among them- the
When should be vented to the atmosphere not in use. axial piston and the rotary.
bmttle When an air is used as an emergency back- In the axial system α piston moving within α
up energy source, α standard pressure gage be cylinder (Fig. 9-52) alternately traps and compresses shasl
installed to allow maintenance personnel to check the the gas. This is the most widely used type, and sizes
pressure. The air bottle should be located so as to range from less than I hp to 5000 hp. Good part-load
produce α minimum length of line between it and the efficiency makes this ty;3ε most acceptable where
shuttle valve. wide variations in capaci.vy are required.
IN LtT
OUTLET
,9
"Figure 9-52. Axial Piston Compressor
9-33
...... . . .... . . .... . ... . Wtik