power roguirencuts for funs aiso are given in Ref. 4.
Compliasce of tikc engioc
subsystemn must be drmonstrelod by tost. Ia additicn
lo the otiher tcmperaiure inaits, al surfacas ex-
cceding soo* F shadf be proteciod from fuei apiliangs.
Aq do saoung aup jo son Ag pergedmcoce sq tsus sal1
Cooding tihe surfaons to α temperature bolow σ00"F.
Thc requiremants for α propuieion sysiqm Ibmpera-
lure survcy ane giveu in Chepicr 8, AMc.Π 706-203. Α
propuiaion sysicm temperature demcastration,
deacribed in Chapier 9 of AMCP 136-203, may
require furthpr testing in addition lo τäsc tcaperalure
survey.
3-7 ACCESSORIES AND ACCESSORY
DRIVES
Helicoper design requiremcnts resuit in minimum
engine accessory drive requirceaents. Exccpt for tbc
engine starter and tachomeiers, mosd acccasories are
driven directiy from the main gearbor. This is to take
advantagc of thc ability of the hclicopier to autoro-
latc in thc event of enginc fsilure. If enginc failure oc-
curs, accesory power docs not fail because the main
-jonug :2nod fpdds pus wim: 0: saugues coqums
Intion of belicopter sccessories is discussed in
Chapler 4.
3 AUXILIARY POWER UNITS
(APU'σ)
38.1 CENERAL
The requirement for an APU will be established
during preliminary design. The paragraph describes
design *nd installation requirements for APU'σ and
refers to pertinent qualification requirements.
Emphasis is placed upon the singke-shaft APU con-
figuration becauze of its wide use. Duc to the trend in
helicopter design touard such items as pneumatic
main-engine starting. air conditioning. avionic
cooling. IR radiation suppression. purging of main
engine inket-protection sysiems, air supply for anti-
icing. and the availability of air-driven accessory
motors (boost pumps. ctc.) aoditional emphasis is
piaced upon the blced sir typc of APU. New helicop-
ter designs have favored this typc brcausc of lower
overall system weight. despite thc lower cnergy-trans-
mission efficiency of the pneumatic main engine-
sturting system. The bieed air type of APU usually in-
corporates an integra! gearbox capable of driving
small electrical generators and pumps and, thercfore.
Several APU configurations can be selected 10
supply pneumatic power (combined with small
aiounts of shaft power). Four configurations are
comparcd in Table 3-1 as to gcomctric shape. weight.

AHCP N0Σ-2ξ
cost, and reliabifity. Seloction of cunfiguration bnsed
upuc shape will dcpead upon helicopter space avail-
abie. Weight and volume are compurable: but cost.
relinbility, maintaicability, and life cycle costs favo.
Ihe single-shaft combination biced APU lype.
Moderu singie-stage centrifugal compresrors can
produce 4.0:1 and bigher preasure ratios with α wide
range of filow betwcen choke and stall.
Although the driven compresor may produce
higher presaurcs, variable inlec guide vanes or dif-
fuser vancs may be nocessary to obiain thc requirod
flow range.
J1 APU INSTALLATION DETAILS
In considering the detail design for installation of
Iie APU. all inserfaces with thc bcli ptesr stoll bc
treated. Thcce include APU mouating: inlct. cxhaust
*nd biced air ducting: compartment cooling. anc sp-
proprizic APU subsystems.
3-4.21 Π Metbod ef Meyatla
The APU mounting subaysiem stal! be capabic of
withstanding all flight maancuver forces. providing for
thermal growih. isolating vibration (=hcn required).
and being arranged for ease of maintenance (especial-
iy for rapid installation and removal).
Driven equipment usually is APU-mounted, thus
removing the problem of alignment. In some cases.
however, = straight-through external drive shaft is
used to transmit shaft power into an auxiliary or
combining gearbox. In such cascs. α fexiblc coupling
must be provided.
The APU often can be supported rigidly. This is
donc conveniently by means of α thrce-point support
arrangement. Two pin-type mounts on cach sidc of
the APU limit vertical, axial. and horizontal motion.
but provide laieral frecdom for thermal expansion. Α
single gimbal then is used to support vertical loads.
while giving thermal freedom radially and axially.
In most helicopter applications. vibration isolation
has not been required becausc the APU is able to
withstand fight loads and vibrations without shock
mounts. Experience has shown that frequencies up to
500 Hz are significant. but that APU susceptibility is
highest from 5 to 100 Hz. The APU must be capable
of withstanding the complete aircraft vibration spec-
trum in both operating and nonoperating modes.
When the APU is not opcrating, normal loads are not
available to stabilize parts in position. Hence, it is
possible for external vibration to cause unusual mo-
tion of internal parts, thus resulting in excessive wear
and premature failures. APU components of par-
ticular inierest in this regard are the combustor liner
assemblies. the aerodynamically located internal
3-15