AACP 205-202
typos. A pushing motion in line with the button nor-
mally is roquirod; however, a modification of the
maintained-action type roquires a pull-to-operate
motion.
Military push-button switch requirements are do-
fined in MIL-S-880s. The switchee described are
availabls in five onclosure designa, four temperature
c'arscteristics, two shock types, and three vibration
grades. The spocification covers both sonsitive and
push-type switchos. Sonsitive switchos are intonded
for a nonhand-operated modc, while manual (push)
switchas sre intended for hand operation. The
Supploment to MIL-S-8805 contai.ns & list ef speci-
fication shoots by switch title and a liat of suparsouled
documants (MS, AN. and JAN standards and
specifications).
16-5.1.3 Rotary Swisches
Rotary switches are urod to control a number of
circuits in consocutive steps. These switches are
available in single or muitiple wafers, aliowing a large
variation in the configurations and making the
switches adaptablc to many taaks.
Detents are provided cn thcae switches by th: use
of stoel balks carriod in & detent plate. The detents
causa a roquirement for a relatively high torque to
turn the knob. and the switching takes piace with a
snap axtion at maximum force and velocity. This ac-
tion roduces the arcing time between contacts and
promotes longer contact life.
Most rotary sdector switches are used in electronic
circuitry whero currents are low. The usc of the
sliding type of contacts on tncee switches provides the
nocessary seif-cleening requirod for low contact re-
sistance. Roiary switchss should be installed with the
extromse counterclockwise pouition as the OFF posi-
tion. MIL-S-3786, MIL-S-6746, and MIL-G. 7090 de-
fine the roquirements for rotary switchas.
.
FITTINGS, TAPERED
PIPE THREADS
MIL-F-5509
1HREADS FITTING BNDS BOSS DIMENSIONS
MIL-Π-7105 MS33677 AND 10053
Figure 36-6. Tapered Pipe Toread Fittiags
16-22

16 6 PIPE AND TUBING FTTTINGS
164.1 GENERAL
Aircraft hydraulic systems shalf be dosignod and in-
stallod in accordance with MIL-H-5440 uniom otber-
wise directed by the procuring activity. Hydraubc
system roquirements are discuseed in Chapter 9 and
the roquirements for fuel and lubrication systoms are
deecribod in Chapter 3. This paragraph discusecs the
fittings usod in the installation of hydraulic systems
and in the installation of fucl and lubrication systems.
Since cach joint ropresonts a poesible lcakage and
trouble spot, the installation of piping systems must
be accomplished cerefully. The number of con-
nections usod should be reduced to a minimum in
order to ssure maximum safety and system ef.
ficioncy with minimum installation and maintenance
costs.
16-6.2 TYPES OF FTTTINGS
Many types of pipe and tube fittings are avaiiable.
For Aircreft systems, thosc gonerally used are tapered
pipe throed, straight throad using a gasket scal, fared
tuto, flareloes tubo, thin-wall tubo, quick disconnoct,
and perranont. Solder-type tube fittings conforming
to MiIL-F-s001 are inactive for new design, cxcept for
oxygen systans and engine primer lines.
16-6.2.1 Taxered Plpe Threade
Taperod pipe thread fittings providc reasonably
ksalproof connoctions, but shouid be used only for
permanent attachmonts or clorures. Fig. 16-6 illus-
traics this type of fitting and thc relatod specifications
and standards. High-quality workmenship an
machining to clore tolerances will insure 8 good seal
with this type of fitting. However, it cannoi be usod
for directional adjustmeat because it must be
tightenod propaty to prevent leaxs, asrd therc is a
FITTING
BOSS