AMCP 706-2012
r "C" .luriiinum. and having variation. zinc, a V;
The heat-treat and temper designations mag- for gise
to nesium virtually are identical those for aluminum. the
he temp~er designations used those in power ASTM urc -:1
8296. front
There are four groups of mugnesium casting al-
loys. The Mg-A and Mg-Z binary systems are costls tie-
Iir use at temperatures signed belo%% and are 300'1[
~~i of Ios~er cost. The Mg-F and the Mg-Fl binary s~s-
tents are designed for good strength in the 500'0
range. The choice of casting 8004:~ composition is
dictated largely by certain features of the design, and plate.
cost by and irecthod of production. For magnesium
alloys, the important casting proce~ses are sand, per.
and The mnciaret die. choice of miold, a casting
proc-ess depends upon the size, shape, and minimum ceptt'd
seclion thickness the of part, and upon the tolerances,
types of surface finish, number of pieces to pro- be
duced. and relative cost of finishing the part.
Magnesium alloys, both cast and wrought. haie are
outstanding macmiinability. Greater depths of cut and
higher cutting rates can be used with these metals these
than with other structurai metals. Magnesium does
;ý . s ns %%,U U 94 ,*M4 slt ?a
polish the material in order to obtain an. extremnely the
fine finish. The chips from machining readily clear
work and the tools. ihe within
Because of its position in the series, electromiotive
magnesium is subject to more corrosion than are the are
other structural metals. The many corrosion prob- by
lerns associated with the use of magnesium severely
limit its use in rotary aircraft. Magnesium alloys shall
not be used for parts that are not readily accessible
for inspection, application of protective finish, and flash,
replacement.
magnc.ýiuin cannot be wcided satisiucturily to
other metals, and welding of magnesiam to mag-
nesium can be accomplishmed reliably only by a skill- 2-2.2.5
operator. ed The metal also cannot be soldered.
A the is welding (EB) beam electron properly. Thus,
mostsatsfator wedin prces, athogh luxdip alloys
mostsatsfator wedin prces, athogh iuxdip
brazing also may be used; care must be employed in
removing all of the flux because of the danger of cor-
rosion. The best method ofjoir .ig magnesium in thin have
sectonsis y ahesve ondng.mal
2-2.2.4 Alloys tageous 'Titansium
contains a comprehensive des- load MIL-HDIIK-697
cription of titanium alloys arnd their properties, and for
discusses design, fabrication, and performance. In
addition, seven Military Specifications for specific
forms of titanium will found in Refs. 2 and be 3. are
Although titanium is relatively costly, its high and,
strength-to-weight ratio, excellent corrosion. re- borne
sistance, and capability of performing at con-
2-6

siderahh higther tenmperatures than aluminum often
applications, advantages bor partic:ular it as in
hot structures and exhaust ducting for helicopter
s)-steins. Indeed. increased paj loads resulting
. ~a eight catmr initial saving~i %% fseth
costs, and in the long run titanium may prove less
. for seii plctosta okrpie
aplcto mtaterials.spih hnlserrid
1Itnmisaihlt ilsivrou mlc
ane srought shapes and in at side of' alloyed range
unalloyed grades including billet. bar, extrusions,
and tuh.*ng. The mill iheet, products can be
grouped into three categories according to the pre-
domninant phase in their Alpha, inicrostruclure:
Alpha-Beta. and Beta titanium. There is no single ac-
system for the designation or classification of
titanium and alloys as there for other metals. ure its
Titanium is easier to machine than the iactual",
.
stainless steels becauhe the effects of work -harden ing
far less pronounced. Titaniumi requires low I!
shearing forces, and is not noi-.h-sensitise. Because of
properties, it can he machined to extremely low 1*
micro-inch finishes. On the other band, the sharp A
Ionn. C;11;%-* - - - shearing point to heat rapidly. At elevated
temperatures tItnmtedtoislvayhig
contact, and the cutting tool is dulled revdily.
the cirhides F~urther. and oxides oin the forged pie.es
extremecly abrasive to tou's and miust be removed
tiltric-hydrolfluoric acid treatment prior to
machining. Osciall, considerable kno%%hoA is
required for the economical machining of titanium.
Titanium assemblies are joined by spot, scant,
and pressure welding technique-.. In fusion
welding, the TIG process is used-. heavy welding also
Incrt requires g.. tl -A k.
welding is quite saiLffactory.
Copper and Copper Alloys
copper and coppeF of discussion 1;oniprehensivc
1
and their prtop-rties. design and fabrication
characteristics, and design and performance data is
contained in MIL-l-ll)BK-698.
h aiu om fcpe n otraly
found only limlited use in helicopters Their ther-
and electrical conductivity properties are ad.-an-
in inserts, studs, bushings. etc., where owk
is useful is desired. Beryllium copper
-urct
sprink's and oiler applications where its good
modulus, hardness, fatigue resistance, and ease of
formiing are advantageous. copper alloys tlo%%e~er,
the hcaviest of the common structural metals,
therefore, have disadvantage %%eight in aii- at
applications.
The various types of copper and its alloys are