ucP 706-293
Spherical control bearings commonly are retainod
in & oontrol rod by staking thair outer rings. This
method uaee a circumferential, V-shaped groove
machinod into the bearing outor ring. as ahown in the
detail of Fig. 16-4. After the boaring is pressod into
the housing. a spocial tool is usod to roll the portion
of the outer ring outboard of the groove over a
chambor in the base of the housing. This providas
positive axial retontion of the bearing. and permits
tho baaering to be removod from the assambly by
applying a heavy axial load. Bocause loading of thcoc
boarings is primarily rodial in diroction, the staking
procodure has boon found to be satisfactory fos most
helicopter applications of spherical control bearings.
164 ELECTRICAL FTTTINGS
164.1 GENERAL
The design of clectrical systems is discussod in
Chapter 7. Thie paragraph discusscs the fittings used
in thcoc cloctrical systoms.
Elctrical fittings should be selectod for reliability
and case of maintenance. Therefore, several dasign
principlos should be observod:
1. Mounting hardwere should be connocted par-
manantly to the part baing mounted.
2. Featuros stiould be providod to prevont in-
corroct aseembly.
3. Right- and left-hand parts cither should be iden-
tical or should be incapable of being interchanged.
4. Components should be protected against in-
correct use of attachments.
5. Universal mounting fcatures should be incor-
porated whcre possibis.
6. The use of dissimilar metals in intimate contact
Mall be avoidod (soe MIL-STD-889 and MIL-STD-
454. Roquirement 16. for definitions of dissimilar
metsls). An interposing compatible material shail be
uaod if combinations must be axsemblod.
7. The number of wire and cable junctions shouid
bo minimized. and only approved devicer shall be
used where junctions arc requirod.
8. The usc of identical connoctors in adjucent
locations should be avoidod.
9. Junctions should be accassible for inspoction
and maintenance.
10. Terminals and junctions should be spacod a suf-
ficiont distance apart to prevent arcing ard detri-
mental current lcakage betwoen circuits.
Becausc of the number and varicty of switchas, ter-
minal blocks, connoctore, terminals, and insulating
nusterials available, manufacturers' data and the
referencod Military Specifications should be con-
sutted for additional information not presented in
this chapter.
16-16

Marking requirements of selatod clecurical azd
cloctronic parts are defined in MiIL-STD-1285. MIL-
E-70e0 contains the reneral roquirements for sir-
borne electrical oquipment.
16 4.2 CONNECTORS AND CABLE ADAPTERS
Conuoctors are usod for joining a cabie to other
cables or for joining cabics to oquipment in casca
where froquent disconnect is roquired. The most com-
monly used connoctors have boen the circular and the
rack-and-panel types. MIL-W-5088 doex not state a
requirement for a spocific type of connoctor. but
roquires that selection and use shall be in accordance
with MIL-STD-1353. Although there are more than
30 Military Specifications dealing with connectors,
the designer should roduce the quantity of connactor
varistions and limit the sclection to those which lend
themselves to common termination methods; i.c.,
common contacts, common bacl: hardware, and
common assembly tools. This discussion is limitod to
those connoctors most commonly used in heli-
copiers. Tablc 16-8 provides a roady reference t0
these types. along with their general descriptions.
Table 16-9 lists additional spocifications to be used
where spacial requiramenis exisi.
Connector is a generic term usod to denote both an
electrical plug and a roceptacie. A plug is a con-
nector that normally is attachod to a froo-swinging
ciectrical cable. A receptacle is a connector that nor-
mally is attached rigidly to, or is an integral part of, a
supporting surface. Each connect or sha! be sclected
to make the "live" or "hot" side of the cwnnoctor the
socket member to minimize possible shorting when
the junction is disconnecied. The dead side of the cir-
cuit is the pin member. Therefore, depending upon
the individual circuit, a plug may contain either pins
or sockets. The mating receptacle, of course, will con-
tain the opposite.
16-4.2.1 Connector Selectivn
A multitude of connector designs, with specific
capabilitics, are available. Morcover, many of the
features of thesc designs overlap. Thereforc, the re-
quiremen:s pertinent to the task for which the con-
nector is intended should be Jentified and then co.A-
pared with thc fcatures of thosc available.
Information necessary for the selection of :!
proper connector includes the following:
1. Specific types of connectors, if any, designated
in the contract
2. Appiicable envinonmental conditions
3. Maximum voltage and current for cach circuit
4. Number of circuits to be accommodatod plus
spare contacts