706...2
Ξ7o2o2
craft. MIL-Α4591 contains α detailed method for α dynamic and aeroo),mnic evaluation of the mis-
calculation of suspension system iriterface loads. This uile/helicopter system. SouLv of *ection force that
specification is applicable to bombs and other have been used succesdully compresed imude gas,
and explosiv. or propellant aircraft. and mechanical spLgp, externally-mounted storm on fraed-wing
mad- to prevent be made devices. Provision launcher misile α helicopter used for may be sWi
in eithcr system, of the eWction operation vertent lug and with the compatible the launcher wlboe! rer is
way brace criteria contained tfrvin. Missile launch flight or on the ground.
fixturm and suspension hardware generally should be
sAmple, lightweight, 0 and small as possible, com- ROCKETS Ω123
patible with maximum reliability and with minimum Rocket launchers of the number and type
ffects upon missile and aircraft performance. Α safe- described by the governing hblicopter systeai specifi-
ty or retention lock mechanism is required in the cation be installed " The current rocket type
launcher to prevent inadvertent launch and to retain qualified for use on helicopters is the 2.75-1. folding
the missile unde severe load conditions (ι.ε., cruh fin aircraft rocket (FFAR). This roc~et is available in
loads). The retention device should be designed to in- α variety of warbead/fuze combinations to suit
terupt the launch initiation system, as well as to specific helicopter mission requirements. It is carr;;ed
rftrain the missile mechanically. in and launched from the heAcopter by means of
of its The rodcet and some tubular launchen.
(kscribed 14-2.±12 Lome& Iim'ilao available launcher types are in TB 9-1340-
for consulted should β:α ARMCOM of 201. α means should include missile system The (etails
from enve- exhaust blast foros, launch recoil regarding the nir- signal initiation α launch transmitting
items. pertinent power, and other firing lope, of this and complexity nature The the missile. craft to
system will depend upon the type of missile to be
Istaflatdm launched. Some missiles require only the ignition of α 14-23.1 Rocket Lamber
rocket mator, while others require in-flight pre- The primary function of the rocket launcher is to
launch checkout, initial condition inputs to the release the rocket safely front the helicopter without
guidance unit, and multistage launch sequencing. The disturbing the roket from its intended φ;ght path. "
*Jesign should be as simple possible, as consistent The initial flight direction of unguided rockets direct-
with α reliable and safe launch. ly influences delFv.,ry accuracy. There#fore, the
launcher design should provide ;'or accurate align-
the helicopter boreline with launcher ment of the Latch Restramlag 14-2.2.13
latch mh Ais.metimes is aiming reference under all actical deployment con- Arestraiing lthmechanisn•sm etms ditions. The effectiveness, safety, and maintain.
ar1- φ and csro ents em req aity launch. to prior just missile the retain to required 14- pars. of considerations and requirements ability is_ lach therocet estrinig Thisis imilr τ
This is similar to the rocket restraining latch dis- 2.2.1 through 14-2.2.7 are relevant to both rocket and
cussed in par. ! 4-'.3.7. The latch is designed to retain missile installations. Additional interface design con-
con- are rockets only to free-flinLt talated siderations to but maneuver loads, normal under missile the
o ragraph. τ π thin σ wi rain riotor the by created load predetermined α at release
paragraph. this tained within the of per- as designed be may mechanism The thrust.
suspension and retettion system (rpar. 14-2.2.11I). heiicop- The ters consist for of α fixed, forward-firing, rearward- launchers FFAR 2.75-in. current The (ar.14-.2.1).The suspnsin ad rteaionsystm
- δ in The . lsr tuie of vensist arma- by easily be releasable should latch restraining
individual The cluster. tube omyn-breech venting, un- and loading grourd during mechanics men:
cluster thm replacehble, or or reusable ba tubes may contain should design latch The operations. loading
in- are normally The launchers expendable. be may to order in load release the adjusting for provisions
compensate for wear in the mechanical components. line of flight under specified to the flight conditions. (boreline) parallel axis the launcher with stalled te mehancalcomonets. ν fr war compnsae
 ightallationsh cher laun 4 of Othe post- prevent to ed proviO be should devices Locking been have installations of launcher types Other force. missile-restraining in the variations loading
used successfully in fixed-wing aircraft, but have not
been applied to helicopters to date. They are listed
14-2.2.14 Forced Ejectl.. here because of possible applications to helicopters of
Some missile systems may require α means of ejec- the future, and include:
ting the missile from the launcher in such α manner as 1. Open-tube pod, retrastable into the fuselage
to provide separation of helicopter and missile prior and extended for firing
to ignition of the boost motor. The necessity and 2. Restricted-breech, rearward-venting, with con-
mechanism for forced ejecton must be determined by stricted or deflected exhaust
14-8