: "7• •-, •Λ•.•Λ•, • ι° •:Ž•.ig:ss.
2
optimized for α systcm with α high natural
oscillation quency, the of the torque at the
wheel that follows will be so phased that it
the original, lkw-frequency, drive system
Unstable torsional motion results.
It is not feaible to stabilize the system either
χ:uding mechanical dampers in the drive shaft
stiffening the shafting sufficierntly to move the
frequency out of the response range of the
Furthermore, the gains and time constants
engine and governor can be varied
narrow limits One effective solution is to use
amount of valve oyerlap, which allows the
governor to oscillate the fuel valve α small
without modulating fuel flow.
Design Coelderations 54.7.1
three-phase effective, an establistes Ref. 39
problem. the with adequately deals that dure
the steps include:
The engine 1. .doaigncr provides as much
bility as possible in-the engine governor
2. Early in the preliminary design, the engine
heliconter denioners evechangp syuem rnie.rnodrm each designer conu4cts an analysis of the
The 3. helicopter designer selects the
Seveoal efhicient ε minputer methods of anyysis
exist, including antlog, digital, and hybrid.
lysis can be complete, including the nonlitioar
ptperation, of enginq full range for the meters
turbation analysis can be informed in
operating point is selected about which
stability is detetmined. The complete analysis Σ~small
more complex, but it determincs transient
Λ. ...... ............. - "" •BatVB as sa.λ.end#.~j. ... α.I ass droop ν.Ad ip.. tB lysis u1sually ι- aequate for dletemining stability
alone.
5-5 BLADE RETENTION
5-5.1 RETENTION SYSTEM DESIGN "CONSIDERATIONS
The fully articulated, gimbaled (teetering),
rigid (hingeless) rotors are Jescribed in par.
blade retention requirements for each are
and are discussed in the paragraphs that
5-5.1.1 Articulated Rotors
The fully-articulated rotor system provides
doa of Mlade movement about ilap and lag hinges
") response to aerodynamic forces resulting
change and/or flight conditions. This flap
-_
freedom reduces the flap and IA; moments to

: .. •. . ••,γ....zL*•.••,
.
fre- the respective hinges. The lag dampers (shock ab-
turbine sorbers) prevent unstable blade oscillations about the
reinforces lag hinges. Dampers usually are not required for flap
oscillation, hinges because of the amount of aerodynamic dam-
ping provided by flapwis Jade motion.
by in- The design considerations for α typical articulated
or by rotor, the motions and loads for each hinge, find thtir
natural effect on the helicopter are discussed in par. 5-5.1. 1. 1.
governor. This rotor has the flap hinge inboard, then the lag
of the hinge, and then the pitch axis hinge outboard. The
only within effects of reversing the hinge arrangement are con-
α small sidered in par. 5-5.1.1.2.
iiyball
amount 5-5.111 Typical Articulated Rotor Coesideratloas
rhe Boeing-Vertol Model 107 rotor is shown in
also is of this rotor The hinge arrangement Fig. 5-22.
171, Model Brintoi the Σ-si, dorscy thte of typical proce-
air- 10 and 6, 8. Mil Russian the ano H, the Alouette Briefly,
others. craft, among
flxi- The hap, lag, and pitch hinges on the Model 107
TrQtor have oillub icqtcd, cylindrical roller bearings.
parameters. The three flap hinge have α common, centrally
and lIcated reservoir, while eazh of the other hinges has
nnl system. τ own reservoir. Each reervoir has one or more
Optimum sight glasses to indite oil level. Radial, positive-
contact seals retain the lubricant in the bearings.
now The flap hinge is .Offset both radially and in the
The ana- direction of rotation. The radial offset of the flap
hingv axis is small, approximately 1.7% of the blade
para- radius, and is as close to the rotor cnter as shaft and
radiat λ offset small of the Boqatts sizes permit. hinge or α per-
which an of the flap hinge, the gwntrol forces generated by this
oscillatory rotor come primarily from thrust vecror tilt, with α
is much small contribution from the veca χ λ nt α contribution from the vertical component of
rcsponse the flap hinge forcn isee Fig. (Β)). 5-2
The offs τ of the flap hinge in the direction Ca" of rota- tion (also known as the torque offset, and shown as
dimension "α" in the plan view, Fig. 5-22) is chosen
to satisfy two requirements:
5. To equalize loads on the flap-hinge bearings
when the blade is in the lag position, corresponding
to normal flight torque
2. To avoid reversing axis, motion of the flap
and hinge bearings due to blade lead-lag motion in nor-
5-3. The mrtal flight.
different, The flap hinge cylindrical roller bearings with-
fclow. stand blade centrifuga. force, alternating loads due to
blade lag oscillation, and blade vertical shear forces,
and experience one-per-rev flapping oscillations of
free- :1:4-6 deg. Thrust loads are carried by α β;onze thrust
in bearing.
from pitch Permanent stops prevent excessive blade droop or
and lag flap motion due to winds while the helicopter is
zero at parked or during rotor shutdown. These stops are set
5-27