AMCP 706202
V average velocity of contacting surfaces, -
fpm
kt airspeed, indicated φ
fps velocity, induced
=
V. vertioal airspeed, fps
art uste lb weight, Σ
aft adjustable - weight, lb Ω
Ω/ forward adjustable lb weight.
proprller Ω weight, lb
maximum Ω allowable weight for abrasion
lb strip.
sr minimum allowable weight for abrasiob
strip. lb
2 =disk loading, β/ft ω
= distance bet~wen center of main rotor and Ξ
ft moment arm, rotor-antitorque tail
Ξ" dynamic axis, in. =
Α clearance between main rotor and tail =
ft bladc tips, rotor
leading blade from chordwise distance = ξ
in. increment. mass of centroid to edge
=spanwisc Y distance from flapping hinge to
centrois of mass increment, in.
onlf mass rntroi incrment, in.that , Σ =
rotor blade ogn , dvice
ι propnler = blade angle, deg
• = Taprp (Cblade
=Tt''( ICL)
6, = pitch-flap coupling angle, positive if pitch
is decreased when the blade flaps up, deg
6 rotor blade angle, de8 = Σ- advance ratio, dimensionless
coefficient of friction, dimensionless
mass ratio rotor =
1 slug/ft = air density, π
= standard deviation, defined the root- Π.σ Ir
Σ....... β.- dviations the of
the mean and points data individual tween
dimensionless solidity, = rotor
$Τ
psi stress, bending blade =
rotor = blade solidity, dimensionless
4' propeller inflow angle, deg
4' yaw rate, rad/sec =
2 acceleration, rad/sec yaw 4, -
9 = rotor angular velocity, rad/sec
velocity, rad/sec = tail rotor angular Σ;,
fps tip speed, = rotor
R11
 precession velocity, rad/sec -
 propeller - speed, rad/sec
= natural torsional frequency, rad/sec
natural frequency of α rotating beam, =
rad/scc
5-2

INTRODUCTION 5-1
mcchani- arc propellers and rotors all general, In
3 accelerating by thrust produce to devices used cal
fluid mass. They range in sophistication from simple
two-bladed, fixed-pitch configurations to coaxial
counterrotation systzms with individual rotor colicc-
tive and cyclic pitch control The analytical tech-
niques for all types arc very similar. However, there
are minor variations in the definition of rotor-pro-
poller nondimensional parameters whi,:η prove to be
unimportant once it is realized that data can be
transposed readily from one format to another.
The overall performance of α rotor or propeller
may be described by its tip speed, airfoil character-
in- Rotational loading. disk and ratio, solidity isWics,
ertia also is important to rotor design because it
affects helicopter autorotational performance. Based
the detail parameters, these for vialues selected upon
optimizing the of α task is largely the rotor of design
flap- of blades, number the of in terms configuration
ping and inplane freedoms, dynamic response to
externally applied cyclic forces, and the assurance
the hardware can be built with α fatigue or ser-
life compatible with the design requirements.
The paragraph addressing "esign parameters re-
views those preliminary design factors which will be
converted to useful hardware in the design of the
convertemn
rotor system.
on The paragraph rotor system kinematics dis.
cubses the blade motions to be accommodated in the
detail design; in particular, the flapping, leading, and
cc- systemi motions. rotor Typical blade-feathering
ful- teetering, by means of commodat, mctions these
ly articulated, or hingeless hubs. The paragraph also
provide both for that of methods α number describes
blades. of individual collective feathering and cyclic
addresses dynamics rotor system on The paragraph
of the distributions and mass stiffness internal the
rotor blades, and the relative effects of these factors
on aeroclastic stability, vibration response, flutter,
ground resonance, and other phenomena related to
Also functions. forcing and periodic damping system
covered in this paragraph are rotor responses to such
loadings. gasts excitations as and acoustic transient
the include. retentions of blade discussion The
blades to the rotor various means of attaching the
hub. Among these are elastomeric bearings, tension-
torsion straps, and antifriction bearings. Also de-
scribed are auxiFaiy devices used at the hub to alle-
viate blade forces associated with blade pitch, and the
lag hinge dampers used to dissipate the excess energy
of the inplane motion of the blades. Blade-folding
provisions, both manual and powered, arc discussed
as well.