(between the pilot'σ stick and the actuaton). In
tice, if both hydraulic .ad electrical power are
available, the gytos SAS arm made as small as
ble and their output signals are amplified (electrically
and/or hydraulically) to the power level required
provide inputs to the control actuators. Dual or
electrcal SAS'ι can be provided below the final
control actuator with less weight than α single
system. mechanical
6-3.2.3 Type of Rtor System
It is possibk to use the stabilL-er bar Bell or
servo Hiller rotor with rotor systems having
than two blades (Ref. some 20). However, of the
xcure refinements or relationships kinematic
essary for the success of the system may be
looked. For example, the orientation of the gimbal
pivots on the Bell rotor is critical in order to prevent
driving torque from acting about the feathering
In the Hiller system, the amplitude and phase of
feedback of blade flapping into the cyclic pitch
trol of the paddles servo rotor are very important
) the effectiveness of the system,
gyro, The Lockheed control which is processed
forces applied thiough springa, is applicable only
hingelems rotors or those with an equally high
joing natural frequency. In order for α flapping
upon teetering rotor to exert α momeot the fuselage,
it would have tc, tilt relative to the rIotr shaft. To
tain this tilt, the control gyro would havc to be
by β an equal or greater amount, depending upon the
linkage ratio. This control gyro tilt, 90 deg out
phase with the swashplate tilt, would alter the
of the maximum spring-applied force upon the
trol gyro, causing it to nutate toward the saahplate
tilt, and eventually to line up parallel to the swash-
plate. In the case of hingeless rotors, with their
control power, the required amplitude and/or
tion of control gyro tilt are too small to permit
noticenable gyro prew ione
Ini general, whenever α rotor-mounted SAS
.... modified from its origin form, an extensive
grim of developmental and qualification testing
necessary. The internally mounted electronic,
draulic, or fluidic SAS'σ, which are more flexible
less dependent upon rotor dynamics, are more
table to any rotor system. The electronic SAS
are adjustable individually in pitch, ro!λ, and
directions; can Ω. made variable with airspeed;
can be cro.•-coupled if eesired to compensate
- adverse airframe crou-coupling,
H emode.
-, 6-3.2.4 Helicopter Coafgraion
ingle'rotor helicopters can be equipped with

AMCP 705-202
prac- type of SAS that is compatible with helicopter size
ani the type of rotor used. This is because pitch and
possi- roll controlled attitudes both arc cyclic by pitch in-
puts to the main rotor. The yaw SAS, if used,
to operates collective by controlling the pitch of the tail
triple rotor. Thus, each SAS input to the helicopter control
rotor system ι3 independent.
On the other hand, tandem-rotor helicopters ob-
trin longitudinal control by use of differential collec-
longi- tive pitch of the two rotors. Obviously, any
tudinal SAS will be required to change the thrust of
the one or both rotors. Rotor-located, mechanical SAS'σ
more - such as those that are used by Bell, Hiller, and
ob- Lockheed and that affect only cyclic pitch - are not
nec- adaptable readily to tandem-rotor helicopters. The
over- necessity for mixinL all controls from the cockpit of α
tandem helicopter before they are impressed upon the
rotor makes it more straight-forward to introduce
axis. SAS control inputs in series with the cockpit con-
the trols before mixing. However, in large helicopters
con- that contain many linkagas in the control system,
to even normal amounts of play in these linkages may
detract from SAS performance. Therefore, the SAS
by output signals for the respective axes should be mixed
to eicatricaiiy in the same mannvi and α" arc tiOrt ippici
control flap- the mechanical controls. Then the SAS in-
or puts may introdu~xd at the be input to the upper
rotor control actuators.
sus-
tilted 6-3,2.β Suppression Structurl of Rotor and Mode
Responses, Vibrations, or Gusts
of Helicopters whose blades have an inplane natural
phase frequency below the rotor speed consequently have
con- high response to horizontal pylon forms at fre-
quenhies of rotor speed plus lag frequency ( - If wt).
τ ao either flexible que.χ. rotor speed pus α gvifrateon
high or rigid body, has α natural frequency that is near the
dura- aforemnntioned sum or difference, α there will be
any tendency for annoying, large, transient reGponses to
gusts or sudden lateral control motions. In the case of
is resonan=- at the difference frequency (01 = Wr), self-
pro- cited destructive oscillations can occur in the Wir or
is on the round. In some cases, the SAS roll axis ha&
hy- coupled ρ-sonance with the and aggravated it. Thus,
and steps be taken either to eliminate SAS res[ onse rhall
adap- to the mode or to make use of the SA3 in st ι-
gains pressing it Unless α epecial design effort is mad,, the
yaw total lag of SA, sensors, signal shaping, and ac-
and tuators at the high frequencies of the transient os-
for cillations is liable to shift phase respons, into α region
that caurts divergence rather than attenuation of the
It may be necessary to install separate sensors,
filtered to respond only to the pertinent fhequuncy
any and then phase-adjusted so that the final SAS output
6-11