cas the transalis- loss from transminsuion. this the In
elbicienty is &ion q~,
(-Δ 10,% ι 1Π it
/7ý
where
hp transmission, to input power Π,
Another satis'actory method for determniinng
and cooling convection upon is bcsed loss power ic-
does efficicney gearbox that assumption the quires
the within viscosity in changes slight with change not
exterior The tcmpcrature used. lubricant of range
approximately into is gridded gearbox of surface the
sen- temptrature located centrally with areas equal
exceed not should areas individual The points. sing
α con- with exzchanger or heat oil cooler in!. An 5τ6
con- flow and rair is employed rate cooling trollable
con- as are maintained the gearbox ditions about
requires stabili- test procedure The as possible. stant
ex- heat cooler oil discrette two at operation zed
levels of levels, preferably with ternperaturt. traction
at '.cast 50 dcg F aptart. the oji of the tramsnnission, oui
the cooler the power loss to of these runs During each
.
of the temperatures and the is measured 4-19N (Eq.
recorded, points art case monitoring designated'
The increase air temperature. with the ambient along
lower stabilized heat rejection at the in oil cooler
equal to the de- coaidition is assumed temperature
from the housings crease in convzction heat rejection
solution of the air, allowing the into the ambient
sym- (the primed following simple set of equations
cold condition): bols indicate
(4-21) + Τ,) Ccs-(Y7σ PLc EPL Hot: - -
Λ 2 ~) (4-22) Cod:Y +Cc(7-
loss, hp C'Λ-total power
hp cooler 4-19), (Eq. power los& to oil - Π~χ.
hp/*F coefficient, convection cooling cane Σ-
surface temperature of external average
readings, OF
OF air temperature, TA -ambient
and C. arc >Τ7,' and 7 XZPL PcO Because Π;C> "Σ
solu- immediate havc the definition, we by constant
tion:
01
(4-23) (ι CC PLC) - .hp/*F ρ; Ts - - + Τ)2. Τ
 Τ~)veloped 5 ' Α Σ'Σ
initial hot or cold Substit~ating into either of the Cc
lots cquations 4-21 o;- 4.22) will the (Eq. Eq. υ~eld

necessary temperawrws total power loss lIfthe ama PI
condition. the individually each tist measured for
averaged and values of may proba- '3χ α calculated Cc
methods. statistical ard stan- by computed error ble
4-1.4.2.7 Theraid Mapping Tests
permitting, capability instrumentation and Time
of proportioning the or design modirIC46ions final
lubrication distribution, alonj, with necessary adust- -
and clearance such In-7 bearing parameter of zient as
thermal by accomplishe be may preload. ternal.
with in contact embedded Thermocouples mapping.
gca blank with and rings outer and inner becaring
to used be whoulid for example, fillets, or tooth nms
tanumimaaon. of the mapi α thermol construct Mes-
rotating of surement Me temperatures cousponrif ρ
Thw use devia. or similar slip rings oif use the quires
also gearbose. opersting of photographs infrared of [
spots Hot mapping. effective in thermal very has been
*or- for cause as' gradients thermal excessive or
measures. design rective
~ ~ ~ ~dg-
5V referred to weak as sometimes Overpower testing,
testing, is in- testing or modified stress probe. point
to enable the designer rapid results to tended to yield
is to of this testing charnges. Th~ε purpose make timely
fail- failure modes and failures and definec producc
rmliable extenided features, not to demonstrate safe
α 100-hr failure-free overpower operation. However,
of maximum continuous at from to 100 125% test
would indicate that two samples certainly power on
substantiation or quali- life was ready for the gearbox
fication testing.
icvei overpowei recommended maximum The test
of normal red-line is1201-130% power, although in
some instances is used. For valid test results, 110%
the following conditions described in the paragraphs
should be satisfied: that follow
should remain unchi Lubrication states 1. for igcd
4-3). EHD ecu-ponents (Fig. main power path the
equation thc Dowson by as predicted thickness film
power to load (125% is relatively insensitive 4-5) (Eq.
from their 10Δ% values about 4% by should reduce η
however, isothermal condition); for an power levels
may in- temperature of the conjunction because the
re- in turn will load, which 3/4 power of as the crrase
oil by typical MIL.Λ-7808 viscosity of the duce the
evalua- cautious α 22%, by value the of and 28%, η
demanded. is tion
not occur. de- If deflection must Excessive
bevel gear patterns degenerate excessively,
with the inci eased it %oth their reduced area, cou.pled
result in doubling unit stresses ht the load, could
4-31