AMCP 706-202
collective. tail rotor changes mechanically
poiat reference the moves displacement pedal
for the system spring, biasing gyro centering
6-3.1.4 Lockheed Coutrol Gyro
In later versions of the Lockheed control gyro,
gyro bar, consisting of as many arms as the rotor
blades, is mounted universally upon the rotor
above the rotor hub. Pitch links connect each
α pitch anm cn the following blade. Push rods
connect each arm to α point directly below on
swashplate. Sp,-ing capsules in the linkage
the swashplate and the control stick enable the
to exert α moment upon the swashplate. This
is proportional to stick displacement, and is
ferred to the control gyro, which precesses in the
propriate direction 90 deg of rotor rotation later.
tilt of the gyro results in an input of cyclic pitch
main rotor blades. Rotor tilt and fuselage tilt
because of the relatively high flapping natural
quency of the hingeless blades. Additional data about
this system may be obtained in Ref. 13 and in
2.4.3.2, AMCP 706-201.
SAS Electrohydraulic 6-3.1.5
In order to achieve acceptable handling
many helicopters use electrically driven and
rate gyros to measure rates of pitch, roll, and
(Ref. 14). These rate signals are amplified,
cross-coupled where appropriate, and fed into
trohydraulic servo actuators in series with the
ventional control boost actuators.
6-3.1.6 Fluidic and Hydrofluldic SAS
The fluidic SAS, which is operated by air or
is analogous to tke electrohydraulic SAS and may
substituted for it (Rcfs. and 16). The fluidic SAS, 15
with specially developed angular rate sensors
no moving parts and with integrated circuits having
ν3 external plumbing, offers advances in
and significant savings in cost and weight.
it represents an advanced state-of-the-art, and
may suffer from problems such α3 leakage,
ture sensitivity, and nuii shift of the sensors.
6-3.1.7 Fsp'lup Moment Feedback γ
Rigid-rotor helicopters exhibit strong noseup
pitching moments with an increase in speed or
ward gust encounters. One method of counteracting
this tendency is to sense the pylon bending
rind to apply cyclic pitch in such α direction
reduce the moment. If the pylon is flexible, its
flection due to rotor moment can be connected
mech-mically into the cyclic pitch loop at the
6-10
".Λ• I - Ω '- , ,•,- -,,. . .. . .• . . .: ..• . .

This concept 17). (Ref. δ,:flection the to reduce phase Rudder
fully. developed been not yet has the of
turns.
6-3.2 CRITERIA FOR SELECTION
*Σ-3.2.1 Augmentation Requirements
α it is virtually impossible for α helicopter to comply
has with the handling quality requirements of MIL-H-
shaft 8501 without some type of SAS. Selection of the type
arm to of system to be installed requires evaluation of the de-
also ficiencies of the unaugmented, or inhereny, charac-
the teristics. The evaluation criteria include both the
between specification requirements and the requirements im-
pilot posed by the missions assigned to the helicopter.
moment Refs. 18 and 19 discuss the tailoring of helicopter
trans- handling qualities to mission requirements exceeding
ap- those set forth ip MIL-H-8501. Par. 6-3.1, AMCP
The 706-201, presents recommendations for contrcl
to the power and damping.
follow High-performance attack and troop support heli-
fre- copters require high control power in order to
achieve the necessary maneuverability. Good damp.
per. ing 6- in rol!, pitch, and yzw also is required in order to
prevent the helicopter from being oversensitive and
given attitude. Furthermore, in hoid α to diicult at very high helicopters become more divergent
qualities, speeds, with the result that speed compensation of the
sensed stabilization system may be required. By means of
yaw simulation studies with alternate helicupter/SAS
shaped, combinations, it is possible to determine α range of
lcc- gains for the SAS that will cover the extrcmes of
con- opetational requirements. During flight test of SAS
prototypes, adjustment capability can be provided by
or resistors calibrated potentiometers means of
(decade boxes). Final values for system gains should
liquid, be baqed upon adjustments made under actual flight
be conditions duplicating those of the required mission.
The test program also will establish whether or not
having the gains can be constant, or if they must vary with
flight speed, gross weight, or any other parameter.
reliability For α smail obsevation helicopter, the require-
However, ments of MIL-H-8501 generally are adequate, and
it still the simplest mechanical SAS may be sufficient to
tempera- meet them.
6-3.2.2 Helicopter Size
The gcneral category of SAS, mechanical or
power-assisted, to be used is dctermined by heli-
in up- copter size, Only the smallest helicopters can use all-
mechanical systems, because the rotor feedback
moment forces that the SAS must overcome are corrcspond-
as to ingly small, In helicopters with power-operated con-
de- trols (par. 6-4), the need not operate SAS directly
upon the rotor but can operate at α much lower force
proper levcl in the control system below the power actuatorr
._ : ,• :. . . " • •• • . .•• := • . :