AMCP 706-202
INSERT FACE SKIN
ADHESIVE
and actually contact the facc skin. (Fig. 17-12, Detail
A). The bond of face-to-core is achieved by the fillet
of adhesive betwoen the face and the cell wall, which
is another examplc of a shear joint. In Fig. 17-12, the
insert might be an extrusion or any other form that
results in a metal-to-metal joint, as opposed to a face-
to-core joint. Thus, if the desired overall dirrension is
1.00 in. and the face skins are cach 0.020 in. thick, the
inserts would be O.95 in. ihich, thercby allowing fos
two 0.020-in. skins and two 0.005-in. bond lines. Thc
core, on the other hand, vould have to be 0.96 in.
thick. aliowing only for the skins. An exception to
this ruie is the case of the adhesive that incorporates a
carrier, or scrim, which is compoaed of woven or ran-
denly oriented ribers. In such a case, the thickness of
the carrier shruld be aliowed for brtween corc and
facs.
Fig. 17-12 actually is oversimplified in that the
abrupt change in section between the honeycomb
sandwich and tüe sigid insert or adjoining member
shouid, in most cases, de made more graduai either
by shaping the soiid member as shown in Fig. 17-
13(A). or by the addition of aoublers as in Fig. 17-
13(B). In either casc, the rules for adhesive thickness
alowanc still apply. If s construction like tha:
shown in Fig. 17-13(A) is employod, a foaming type
of adhesive may be used on the portior. of the core
that fits sgainst surface A of the closure. Such an ad-
beaive car be prested into the core cells prior to
asser:bly and therehy permit fitting of the parts.
Another example of a design technique that : sures
a fit of parts and, thus, a uniform, unstrainea bond
line is thas employed for the balance bar shown in
Fig. 17-10. The bar in bondexd into the noue radius of
the C spar. Becauze the spar is vary stiff in this highly
curved portion, while thr baiance bar is solid, ine
roquired bonding preasure ir gchieved best by
applying a force agains the back of the bar. It will bc
noted that the noec radius of the b.sr is Forger than the
17-14

DETAIL A
CORE
Figure 17-2. Honeycozb Sandwich Structure
SURFACE A"
INSERT
(A)
DOUBLER
(B)
Figure 17-13. Addition ef Doublers ta
Honeycomb Structure
inside nose radius of the C spar. This assures that the
bar will never bottom out and, tberefore, preasure
always will be appliod at the sidc of the ber. This
technique is not restrictod to rotor biades, but cas be
employed in any situation wbere the bonding
pressure is provided by a component of force that is
applied in a direction other than normal to the bond
line.
While it was stated previously that parts usually
should be formed to fit eech other without the aid of
the adbesive bond, the degrec to which this rule
sbould be imposed is dependent upon the stiffness of
the members being joined and nature of the ancmbiy.
General'y, skect-metel parts should not be so closcly
toieranced in their free state that tbsne is no
allowance fo: citarances when assambling them.
There alsc must be space for C.010 in. or more of un-
curod adhesive between the components during