AMCP 705-202
from 0.001 to 0.030 in. They are so looscly con-
structed that resin content in the veil are: is about
85'% by wcight.
2. Gel coats. This technique consists of spruy.
coating the mold surface with 0.010- to 0.020-in. layer
of thixotropic (nonsaggiug) resin, which is allowed to
set prio: to laying up the glass reinforcement.
Resilicnt resizas usually are used so as to provide α
compromise between scratch resistance and impact
strength. Most gel coats are polyesters. bu: θ:
method also can be used with epoxies.
3. Thermoplastic fims. This method conststo of
laminating α film or sheet of weather-resistent and/or
decorative plastic, such as polyviny! fluoride or
acrylic. to the GRP surface. This technique should be
applicable to α varicty of GRP processing methods
with both polvestet and epoxy resins. but it has not
been used widely in the past. Recently, however. it
process involving vacuum-forming of thermoplustic
sheeis – which then are reinforced by spraying the
back side with chopped glass and polyester resin —
has found wide acceptance. especiaity in the monu.
facture of large parts (up to 300 ft²).
2.4.2 FABRIC LAMINATES
Industrial laminates, also called high-pressure
Jaminates. are reinforced plastics that ate manu.
factured in standard, simpie shapes such as shects.
rods. and tubes. Fabrication of parts from ti.cse
matenals generally is accomplished by standurd
metakzorking operations, such as cututung. dritling.
punching, and machinung. in contraist to molding to
the desired shape as discussed in par. 2.4 1. Ω'here
proouction quantitics warrant imold costs. purts aho
RESIN TYfE. PHENOL FCRIALDEI:YCE F GOHALEEHYTE
REINFORCEMENT SHEE 1 UBE iij nuit
CELLULOSL FAPE R
COTTON FABAIC
ASBESIOS PAI! R
ASBESTOS FABRIC
NYLON FABAIC
CLASS PAPER
AND MAT
GLASS F ABRIC
FROMMODREN PLASTICS ENCYC!(FI[.!Σ.:.
NOTE:
MATERIALS H?:ING J.FIt5SF ::..6.:!
2-16

may be custom-molded by proccdures sinilar to
those deseribed in par. 2-4.1 for low pressure, elosed-
die laminates.
Industrial laminates are osed for components of
simple geometry requiring intermediate strength.
lightweig!τ. and nonmetallic characteristics. In heli-
copter construction, they frequently are used for wear
surfaces, such as on conduits and pu:leys for control
cables and in electrical circuit boards.
Industrial laminates can be made with α number of
mechanical. chemical, thermal, and electrical proper-
ties by varying the type and ratio of resins and rein-
forcements. Those combinations that presently are
available commercially are shown in Table 2-7. In
cach case, the laminates are manufactured by stack-
ing up sheets of the impregnated reinforcement (or by
vrapping, in the case of tubes or rods) and curing
them under heat and pressure. Very high pressure –
ranging from about 200 to 2500 psi -— are used, re-
sulting un high-quality. void-free parts.
from the basic combinations shown in Table 2-7
more than 70 standard grades of faminates are de-
rived. Of these, 32 grades are classified by the
Nutismnui Liccirical Mianufacturers" Association
(NI MA). Descriptions of the NEMA grades and
then appiications are contanned in Vol. 46. Modern
Pitastic Encvclopedia. as also are the properties of
these Lamunates. The designer should consider grades,
apphication. and producibility prio: to final com-
poner: design.
General characteristics resülting trom the selee-
ton of the various reinforcements and resins are
described subsequently.
TABLE 2-7
FOLVESTER E 90. Σ C ON
ν + ι !itt η TUCE
.IT:Α:LQFECENIS