AMCP !Λ&.202
flap The flight. no contact in normal occurs that so
blade; the of ove-tumning prissible pre-vent stops
.I contact. prevent blade/fuseleg stops droop
lag hinge about the displacement angular Slade -
posi- the radial with inversely -varies stop to stop
larg dis- lag angular hinge. However, of the tion
affects: adversly placement
heclicap- tandem in α clerance Blad%-,toý-blade 1.
tar
error kinematic arm 2. Pitch
damper stroke. Lag 3.
lag iaibomird as far located hinge is 107 The Model
lag con- displacement the withi consistent possible, as
of mans the keep order to in listed, siderations
and joint inboard retention blade and the hinge -hi pit
loads. the centrifugal reduce *thus
require- to meeting addition in damper, The lag
as motion, functions lag the of stability for meats
for loads the blade. Design of stops lag lead and
rotor and the condition rotor starting are the stops
is positioned damper The shutdown. loads at braking
will be damper on the load centrifugai the so that
in piston- not result will and axis piston-rod the along
damper wear. Lag or internal-bearing bendialz rod
Teflvin fabric ririgi Lem for with lin art ar~airite- bd end
nance-froe operation.PICAR
Α0ORHU
I
FLAP RESERVOIR SIGHT GAGEPICSHF H4INGE
ROTOR FLAP
SHAFT HINOF
Figure 5-22. Articulated
5-28

3
are lag hinge of the beazings element rolling The
blade from reactions plus to loads subject :cntrifugal
Vertical moments. steady bending and alternatint
bearings. thrust bronze by are carried loads shear
I dtg. of the order is in oscillatio: lag Blade *
(feather) pitch of the bearings roller cylindrical The
bending and steady alternating blade hinge react
blade. of Typical the at the root and shears moments
Ten- deg. flight are *4" in forward angles osciliation
slotted many of consisting straps, sion-torsion
blade centrifugal react the elements, steel stainless
freedom providing easily, twist straps These loads.
the on effect negligible with change blade pitch for
connects pitch arm The force. linkage control pitch the
with in line link nearly pitch of the end to the upper
attachment of this the locations axis; hinge the flap
link to the the pitch attachment of the lower and
favorable coupling to obtain chusen were swashplate the
lag displacements. and with flap blade pitch of the
the joint attach cievis multiple α pins in taper Two
The housing. pitch of the end outboard to the blade
of the folding manual for freedom provides dclvis
depending pin, taper the other or~ε or about blades
fold. of required direction the upon
ROTOR SLADE PITCH HIOUSINdG
I
LAG
Rotor (Boeing MoMe 107)