AMCP 706-293
Soation covors the requiremonta for single-groove,
antifricion-bearing puileys of two typcs and thres
claso: Type I-Nonmotallic and Type II-Matallic;
aad Claas I-Secondary control, Clase 2-Flight con-
trol, and Class 3-Heavy-duty control. For standard
configurations, a0e MS 20219, MS 20220, MS 20221,
and MS 24566. Porformance and strength require-
menss and other data are given by MIL-P-7034.
17.3 PULLEY SELECTION
The soloction or design of the propar pullcy for
schieving optimum performance should be basod
p s ed y ge r n
bie diameter should be usod, and the groove radius
and the pulley strength shali be appropriate for the
size of cable being uaod.
16-7.2.τ Pailay Diameter
upon cable life. An increase in cable life of 10-15 The diameter of the pulley has a primary influence
timae can be achievod by doubling U.e size of a pulley
from an initial pulley-to-cablo-diameter ratio of leas
than aight. Smalier, but atill significant, im-
provomenis are availablo as the diamoter ratio in-
creascs. However, increasing the pulley diamcter re-
sults in inctcasod weight and space requiromonts, s0
the improved cable life must be avaluatod against
thege factors. Noverthelos, pulleys of Icw than 30
times the cabie diamoter should not be usod under
normal circumstances; those with a larger diameter
ratio sbouid be used where possibic.
16-7.2.2 Pulleg Groere
The radius of the pullay groove also is important.
Using a cable in a pullay where the groove radius is
too small causos : wedging action, pomibiy resulting
in distortion of the cable. When the groove radius is
too large, insufficient contact exists, rosulting in de-
formation of the groove tread and distortion of the
cable, and, hence, the puesibility of promature faiture.
Tha radius of the pulley should oqual one-half the
cable diamater plus approximately 0.015 to 0.030 in.
for cable diameters to 0.388 in., and 0.060 in. for
cabie diameters to 0.5 in. Tie contact between the
cable and the pulley groove should be oqual to ap-
proximately one-third the cable circumference.
16-7.2.3 Palley Streagcih
The strength of a pulley may be limitod in several
ways, depending upon the material from wiich it in
made. Consideration must be given to be buckling or
aplisting strength of the sbouve, the checking and
sheariag strength of the flange, and tbe strength of
16-26

7034 and the MS standards provido additional infor-
mation on the strengths of standard pulloys.
16-7.2.4 Pulley Performanco
should be providod to overcome the static friction Sufficient wrap angle of the cabie on the shoave
torque of the boaring. Very amall wrap angios should
be avoided in order to prevent sliding betweon the
cable and the pulley instoad of pulley rotation.
Standard pulleys use ball bearinga that are greaso-
lubricatod and sealod. The seals are capable of with-
standing tomperaturcs of -55* to 121°C. The
bearings are installod in the pulloy, and the assembly
then is chocked for wobble and uccentricity within the
limits spocifiod in MIL-P-7034. Tbe design of
brackets and the placoment of guards shouid allow
clearance for those wobble variations to avoid rub-
bing or other interference with the pulley mounting
brackat.
16-7.2.5 Nonmetalic Pulieys
Nenmetalic pulleys (Typo I par N IL-P-7034)
should be fabricatod of a matorial that mocts the non-
afesglor: requirements ef ths epecification. Ir addi-
tion, this matarial should moet the roquiroments for
fungous resistance, should be noncorrosivo to tin- or
zino-coatod carbon stool cables, and shouid most the
other qualification tosts of the specification.
16-7.3 PULLEY INSTALLATION
Pulley installations shall be dosigned to insure that
the cable alignment (the angik. of direction of change
with the plane of the pulley) does not excood 2 dog. as
shown in Fig. 16-10(A). The offoct of cable sagsing.
uoa posopeuoo n Proqe 'pn are suns Suol aea
determining the cable position. If pocosary. fair- leads and rubstrips sbouid be uaed noar the poliey to
d e
mounting trackat should be such that the deflection
of the pulley under lond doms not resukt in a mis-
alignment angle in excws of tbe 2-deg maximum. The
slack-cable side of a system under losd should be
considered to insure that sagging. binding. and ex-
cousive misalignment do not occur. e
that thore is room to threud the cable ands without
quired bu'sweon the pulley. and the mounting boss
possible. To the maximum posaible extent, the uae of
thin shims or washers betwoen tbe pulley and the
sidcs of the brackets should be avoided. Tikape itoms
are difficult to in all and are lost or omitted easily