Prototype Flgure 7-10.
constraints of specific engine installation. Prototype
is in *hardware shown Fig. 7-10.
ELETRICL MOORSvironmental 7-2.
MOORSuniversally 7-2. ELETRICL
el.ectrical in helicopter for use motors Electrical
upon depending or AC DC, either be systems may
in use motors AC sekocted. the primary power source
induction of the squirrel-cage universally are almost
wvith or single-phase, be three-phase may They type.
governed prin. being of phase to used be the number
of the characteristic* size and by motor by cipally
load requiremenfts. typical
α compfnss motor induction The squirrel-cae
to that in configuration identical statoi laminated -
and α'laminted generator AC in the employed -
con- outer peri~hery has slots on the rotor. The rotor
short- aluminum bars copper or cas-. taining either -
same with end rings of the on both ends circuited - 7) .- material so as to form, ultimately, what resemble3 α
ini the cage. winding is contained The input
.. 'squirrel two- threve-phaze or wound be slots and maty stator
phase. \

CA.-
Cartridge-boosted EPeiurkal Starter System
Housing materials maylbe either aluminum or
~upon en- magnesium, depending weight and
almost are bearings and consideratimis,
For of tho groaeiawbricated variety. ball
is best guide motor, the of ti~χ AC the specification
in MIL-NI-799, contained
of the DC in construction involved The factors
with the motor, DC generally apply also to generator
com- arc pole face if ever, that seldom, the ex~ception
upon tbhe Depending windings employed. pensating
shunt, or used in series, may be the motors DC load,
For very small compcund winding configuraiions.
in employed fields are pcrrnanent-magnet motors,
MIL-Μ- windings. series field the shunt or place of
guide for specifiution as α is recommended 8609
preparation.
α may termed be the electrical motor In general,
of iron as certain volume α device, inasmuch torque
and copper is required produce α given torque. The to
torque require- is dictated the by sizz ot the motor
and where size applications, For helicopter ments.
operate to normal is it premium, α at are weight
7-13