I
9_.CP
corresponding cqLnerally is that value
(ρ/UD),.,j,(Ref. 4). Further, it is preferable to
α blade configuration (planform, twist, and
section(σ) ) such that the ratio of section lift 3nd
coefficients is maximum simultaneously cl/cd
along the blade span.
5-2.1.τ Tip NvaSWb Blade Mach
Performance and weight considerations
arm in conflict when efforts made to are
rotor tip speed. High tip Mach numbers (greater
0.65) can be attractive from the points of view
transmission and blade weight, but they have
mental effects upon both power required and
propagation. If higher tip Mach numbers
employed, tip airfoil selection becomes
• hover performance; thin airfoils (thickness
than 10% of chord length) are desirable, and the
must be selected so as to maintain relatively
lift coefficients,
5-2.1.4 Number of Iades
I C'gr γ:ti Inklina unit.σ,, nf ....
Mach tip blade and lift cocfficient, blade
With uniquely. defined has been rotor solidity
planform α rectangular from variation significant
-- α, solidity rotor effective the blades, the rotor
I. of Ref. the method using evaluated be
rotor of product the by is defined area Blade
among divided can be and area disk ty and
expeijenc design Propeller blades. of number
dicates that efficiency increases with increasing
numbers of blades. However, recent analytical
data, and whirl test by flight vances, confirmed
that tg -is 'ρ ρ.. τ
Apparently, intcrblad¢ interference can reduce
hovering efficiency of muitibladed rotors
The selection of the number of β!ades, therefore,
dependent morm upon considerations of overall
system weight than upon aerodynamic efficiency
par. 3-4.1, AMCP 706-201).
Σ-2.1.5 Twig
Selection of blade twist for the "'ideal" rotor
covered in Ref. in current helicopters, I
generally is linear in order to simplify
turing. If used, stretch-formed spar3 are
twist is obtained quite easily. In any event, twist
tion is α function of disk loading and blade tip
number. The higher the disk loading, the greater
optimum twist; and the higher the tip Mach
the greater the required twist. Twist optimization
achieved by systematic variati.ns using
analytical methods.

06-202
5-2.1.6 to Airfoil Sectiom
sections obtain Rotor blade airfoil preferred for %lhcir
aerodynamic airfoil characteristics frequently are incom-
drag patible with structural design requirements. and α
all compromie nmmt be made. In general, for the
hovering rotor the inboard airfoil should be of α low-
drag type (at least with extensive lower.surface lami-
nar flow). Outboard of 70% radius, compressibility
generally effects ι..ust τ considered, and the lift-to-drag α ratio
optimize Λ/Δ for the airfoil section slould occur at the local
than Mach number and angle of attack. These conditions
of both suggest α spenwise variation in airfoil contour. If α
dctri- constant airfoil is employed, its scleclion should be
noise weighted toward complying with the angle of attack
are and Mach nun.ý,er conditions at or near the blad- tip
more critical (outboard of 80% radius).
less
twist 5-2.1.7 Hovering Thrust Capability
low tip The capability of α hovering rotor to produce
thrust can be expressed by α simple relationship.
However, the agreement between the calculated and
measured values of thrust produced for α given
of power applied of practical amount mean to rotors con-
σ are ,prove•ne, " Several not good. is figuration number,
AMCP par. 3-2.1.1, in arc reviewed and available any
calcu- for appropriate most method The 706-201. for
is depen- possibly new rotor of α the capability latinS should
analyti- which for to rotors similarity the upon dent
limita- The results are available. experimental and cal solldi-
of the prediction for methods available of tOie tions an-,
in is discussed also rotors hovering of performance in-
Ref. 5.
ad-
GuIdeflin 5-2.1.8 show
'rth o
.. v. .u-*v.rn
the eters requires systematic parAmethc varip.tion in-
(Ref. 5). volving all of the major variables given previously.
is This analysis is discussed in detail in par. 3-4 1,
rotor AMCP 706-201. Generalized results arce given in the
(see paragraphs that follow.
In current helicopter designs, disk loading general-
 ' does not exceed lb/ft . Light helicopters (less ly 10
lb than 5000 gross weight), tend to have disk ioadings
2 is of 3-5 lb/ft . The medi in,-size helicopter, 5000-
lb/fl' twist 15,000 tends to lb be in the 6-5 class, and for
manufac- larger helicopters disk loading is of the order of 10
 ' nonlinear lb/ft . Si'ε and weight effects bias the disk Ioadings
selec- higher as gross weight increases.
Mach The curremt cinphasis on high-altitude, high-tem-
the perature design conditions results in values of mean
number, β!ude lift coefficient values of the order of 0.44 to ?'Λ
is 0.54 for sea level standard day conditions at primary
detailed mission gross weight.
Current helicopters have hove:ing blade tip Mach
5-5