drive subsystemt arc ciquerient targri) upon:
1. Improved initiai dicsign:
α. Failure-forgiving áusign fochniques os
definod in par. 4-1.2.1.2
β. Integration of noxessary diegnoric aids end
sonsor provisions into the origins. design.
2. Radiroctod developmant testing etort
α. Sorking out of failure awoda as discusscd in
par. 4-1.4.4
β. Compilatisg of progression rate data snd
corredation with datection level.
3. Implementasion of procodures for eflective
progne sia
2. Determination of sate Tridaei operating
times for failed componcnts, bare od ovespower
opcration to provide aridicior ul safcty mdgins
β. Desergnination of impuct of secondary
fsilare modes from exoassive continuod operation.
4-3 DEIVE SANAFTING ANI)
INTERCONNECT SYSTEMS
In σ dalicopier traasiaioa and drive subuystem.
the driva-abaftistg in amnncias on aft eie shast cocy-
poscns gecegeary ior sbe irazzmiagon af poner fros
ihe cagivscte) 8ε: α gratsoos snd froan α guardox to σ
rnon os propdiar. This ixciaries drive siseft tubez,
coupiags. beariege, aod bening auppurte (hanigess).
4.3.I GERIERAL REQUIMEMRNTY
Spacitic drive shaft reqairtmcots gre drtermined by
eb: particular belicopter desig.. includisg the
aagins(σ) slociad. Sset as. syeil. Caapinz. danger
dea. and oilos cordeynrations davile α. dkfine
primarily by tho poves toquisemesto cf thns spaxcife:
lnnties, bt =ε ineoned by ctia at, δ
Raxions to be eacoostiased. vulnrreisity. Μäis-
lmny, igistzca, aiining ct, an wighi.
Gentrsl seaguiremente fos relisbisaty. main-
awiszsteit υ. azc eurv.vability ate dixctusacl in par. 4-
1.3.τ. En asfitiunn to Loape σ.iactusir ε rcguirenents
there axisi guinng! cnrocteristice aa? Fratares pe-
cuin: to tt staA fenchinen, location, sod oparatine
roaincst patd. Τ rouiresreas npnbe to
Sosise ronit kcssicno are ducuzed in tbe pare-
grupin thnl fega.
4-3.1.1 Eaga.-ι Fzuan:
Raquisuania pa:δ σ egin-o Sastiainiun
shnfiag dyasas tpos. srixlive locniau of tne ergine
and trgauincine aod airese mvning Sytitus,
cagiae PTO (powar-todeon) τ od aad con-
Π. O ; Κ.
Airfiaas motintiap tynterss gtamaliy deictumee
ti ng ad dy ι that ε
4.52

shafting must sacommodate. These mounting
systems may be grouped conveniently into three
categories:
1. Engina(σ) mounted direcily to main gcarbox
2. Engine mounted to sirfrsme with tubular struts,
using rod-end bearings to relieve thermal and ioad
defloctions; with the guarbox bolted directly to the
airframe
3. Engine mounisd as in Item 2: gearbox mounted
fexibly. The rotor pylon usually is intcgrel with the
gearbox, that is, airframe mounted with ciastomeric
springs and hinged finks or struts.
System I generally uses an internal splined quil!
shaR lubricated with gearbor oil. The spliges may be
hardcoed and ground, stighthy ci ossnied ou straughi: or
madium hard and hobied, shaped, or roll-formert.
Wear and fretting corrosion may be reduced by sho:
poaning and/or soft plating or costings such as sil-
ver, nickel. aylon. Teflon, or molybdenum disulfade
disgcrsed in α tonsting vehicke.
Inytallasixn requiremente for Systean 2 can be me:
wilh entareal shafing und cougangs witls relasively
-- cn she osd: cf 1 dcz
Or Seas to Aixoununcdute sirframe structuss! dr.
Hections sadi riitAting tokrances. Thae scleos ν
meaf io srcanai xtsse dyaomic axial deflection brl
vatiatiozs is stasie kngth due to installatior.
toderzozes izoal abenzeg growth of the engine must de
couid-rad is τérs sluan tesign. Care must be taken to
ascae that tsc sirfezsie suructure provides support at
tke eagine ans gartox sttach points adequate 10
minirsize daflection. It often is pomible to comply
wich astisnsta aund crash loud ssengii requiroments,
yea tstosussdes relasively higt deflections wnder nor-
de tives lo goravo tonttiors and to silraunr modes.
Angular delburtinea of τ deg or keus eazily are ac-
comsiodazecx dy Bradle dass: (Aihomas type), fcniole
dhinplragss (Remndin dypu?. clan! ssic. tensicn cie-
ment (Sonder typc). os crownrd τ.oth gear coupings.
Te fira tran typan gan:csally ane preferred bevbuse
they dh tot rapuex grrnae or oil hubricstion. (Se:
coupsiag fuct ssice, per. 4-3.2.1).
Syaeo 3 cuvditiont ofier the garstat shallenge in
conping dacig α.rterixis. Titn isligrment
Ritreasatils vsry wilh pydon wmnd gaing Fates azst
gc aangs aoiig ls *σ wcf
α with tie pronianiy ci Qe cgite Fsgs to ahe gear-
ν inpr. Α'be gnentes tin istandce berweca ibe two.
ate: ε ι: te aus si.2 tox α Ncn -
ρ . F ρ
focuoiny o ro cumiar. svcien ! tan esia
from this ceie au te uaocau inpus huc Giu so ε..
decos botoe mialigesi aual sxial rrction.