AMCP 706-012
ι PRESSURE
4 ELECTROHYDRAULIC
VALVE PIPE JET
FEEDBACK
SPRING
RETURN
PRESSURE--,,,=,--"
TRANSDUCER LVDT
- PRESSURE OPERATED
PRESSURE__
"(Α) ENERGIZED IB) ... DL-ENERGWZED
Fipre 9.43. Typical Separate Servo Actuator
areas shall require no more than removal of quick- izistallation damps is the soft or compliant type, with
access doors. or blocks close erough to the component-attach
devices RLS have ground-checkout capa- points so that excessive stresses do not develop. The shall
esti- be designed with the known or to par. 9-2.6. Manual operating but- installation 1. 1). bility (refer shall
tons may be provided, along with operating indi- mated vibration environment in mind so that sysum
cators on each subsystem to indicate which sub- resonance does not oecr.
system is shut off. Visual access to the operating in- Clamps and blocks may be used to advantage.
θ' dcsirabc β- without ILI..ι.. rnoA dicators "hc -ie it ι, , ,v prefea-bly providud• ,oA Δ. skhl be Δ -
for door opening. Access to the manual operating 994 discusses their use in deail.
buttons may be through conventional access doors
since their checkout will required only periodical- be 9-2.8.4 Momiti Campo"eu Ceacepts
ly, Component instaalation can be cassified as fol-
Access requirements are discussed in MII.-H-5440. lows:
ι. Separate. independent components
9-2.8.3 Hard Versus Soft Installations 2. Inw.4rated packages with cartridge components
The tubing installations may be hard (rigidlj held in α common housing
in• place) or soft (compliant). Each approach may 3. Α pressur-return manifold with 'rnount-on"
cannot work satisfactorily; however, they be mixed components.
successfully. The use of α hard point as α fitting in α The installation trend is to integration or mani-
relatively noncompliant bulkhead - for instance, in folding. Primary reasons are tho resultant reduction
cooun•tion clamps with some dist-nce away can in external points and the weight kak savings. An op. -
disastrous. worst vibration condition, the timum approach may be an integrated pump-iescr- be 4.τ
enough the clamps will allow motion of line to sevice that v,. ir package, separate α center that would in-
flexure at the bulkhead fitting will result in excessive clude all othes components exctpt the control surface
bending stresea•. and fatigue failures. The preferred actuation or any suosystem operating device. In
9-26