JV
Σ-AMCP
χ. Reservoirs and lubrication cavities should
refillable without the necessity for venting to
air pockets.
φ. Oil rcquires elaborate seals and the
nance of seal integrity. Radian-positive-pressurm
are commonly used for dynamic sealing. These
should be installed so that contaminants do not
them through centrifugal ι'nrce.
2. Grease:
α. Shields or simple seals are adeqiate
grease bearings are rclubricated at regular intervals.
Grease retention is fairly gocd with α failed
β. Purged grease tends to exclude external
taminants from the bearing,
χ. Grease in oscillating bearings tends
channel, and the soap base may harden.
mL'υ hard may be ineffective bccansz the soap
proper distribution of new grease. Premature
may result. Yet, if channeling occu-σ, debris detection
will not oc an effective means of faijure
extreme δ. Changing greases (as for
perature use) can accomplished be effectively
disassembly.
".-•-..1.1 itearlogs CVlihidcal Rolleir
" Cyiindricai ι roiicr . . . high
&-.χ
capacity withi small space requirement.
sidesations mainly are ,mpirical, and many
factors are discussed in detail Ref. 42. One ι,1
computing of the basic load capacity with
Ref. motion is given in 43. Other factors
determined by endurance testing and service
tnic.
Some of the factors that influerce the life of
drical roller bearings in rotor blade retentions
I. Angular deflection of the hinge pin, which
cause concentrated load end on one of the
roilern, 2. Crowning of the which can
better stress distribution and tend to ,ninimime
fect of hinge pin deflections
3. Roller guidance (ε.γ., use of α cage), wh;ch
reduce ro;ler misalignment
4. Large angles of oscillation, which can
the number of stress cycles on the bearing rollers
races
5. Mounting fits, which must be as specified
particular application in order to obtain rated
ty
6. Type of lubricant,
5-5.2.1.2 Tapered Roller Bearings
Tapered roller bearings have very high radial
thrust capacities. Design factors are similar to
Sof cylindrical roller bearings and are discussed
42. bearings These can be mounted in pairs
Α\

706-202
be vide α capability to react moments as well as forces.
avoid The roller taper direction of paired bearings can be
reversed to increase the tolerance to misalignment.
mainte-
seals 5-5,2.1,3 Angular Coatact Ball hearInp
seals An angular contact ball bearing carries α high, one-
enter directional thrust load in combination with radial
loads. The end faces of these bearings can be ground
so that two or more beatings in tandem will share α
when thrust load. Α common method of pitch (leather)
hinge construction is to use stacked angular contact
seal. bearings to react the α blade centrifugal force, with
con- reversed bearing to preload the set and to react thrust
reversal. This configuration has the capability of
rn-omenms to reacting and radial loads as well as thrust.
Regreasing Design aiscussed factors for these bearings are in
prevent Ref. 44.
failure
5-5.2.2 Beatings Teflon Fabric
Teflon fabric bearings detection. are used in the main hingcs
low-tern- of several operational helicopters. in the ε.γ., 0-6
only by lag hinge and AH-IG pitch bearing. These bearings
are even more widely used in rotor control systems
where they have demonstrated their ability to with-
st-nd hi;η an adw I'cds vs ,ι;ol in environment.
Design con- The Teflon fabric liner varies in thickness from ap-
of the proximately 0.01 to 0.02 in. deperdirrg upon the
method manufacturer. Strands of α material such as cotton,
oscillatory Dacron, or Fiberglas are interwoven in the back sur-
must be face of the fabric. The fabric then is bonded to the
experi- outer hou.-ing, with the non-Teflon strands pro-
viding good bond adherence. Various bonckng
cylin- agents, bonding procedures, and fabric weaves cre
arc: used; these can result in different characteristics of'
can the finished bearing.
rolles considerations Design for these bearings are:
1. α&fdl pfovidt α Loads inotion.σ. The cfftl of loads and
the ef- motions on Teflon bearing lives is based upon empiri-
cally determined factors. It is general design practice
can to compare bearing fives as α function of where Π PV,
 pressure, - psi, based on the projected area of the
increase bearing surface in the direction of load, and V
and average velocity of contacting surfaces, fpm.
The acceptable value of for α given life varies PV
for with the pressure. Also, load reversals may reduce the
capaci- acceptable value by half. Large-diameter bearings
appear to withstand α higher PV.level than do small
bearings. It is clear that PV is only α convenient index
for comparison of bearings in similar appli.ations,
and real design values will depend upon endurance
full and test data for scale bearings.
those 2. Friction. Measured values of the coefficient of
in Ref. friction of Teflon-fabric com- bearings under loads
to pro- parable 'he to those of rotor hinges gcnerally are in
5-31