The resulting blade loads can be calculated using α
procedure like that used for calculating the response
due to I Π-aerodynamic excitation. For this analysir,
the load is α function of the mass distribution of the
blade and is applied perpendicular to the plane of the
propeller (out-of-plane). Like IP aerodynamic exci-
tation, gyroscopic motion induces α IP-moment on
the propeller shaft, which, for blades having three or
more blades, exerts α steady bending moment Μ on
the aircraft as expressed in
,fA-lb (5-16) - Μ lp.,
where
4,
 propeller mass, mass moment of inertia, -
1 slug-ft
propeller Ω speed, rad/sec
Inertia loads result from the vertical load factor
applied to the propeller. As in the gyroscopic analy-
sis, the load is α function of the mass distribution of
the blad,, but in this case it is applied inplane. The I Π
on shear force F the shaft is simply
(5-17) = F nzWp, Ib
where
 - weight of the propeller biades lb and hub, Wp
There may be other special occasions where loads
due to maneuvers should be considered. For instance,
α tail propeller of α helicopter may be subjected to
large precession rates in yaw while hovering.
54.2.4 Stall Flutter
Propeller blades must be designed not only to han-
dIe the applied aerodynamic excitation loads and to
have the appropriate dynamic characteristics, as dis-
cussed in the pieceding paragraph, but they also must
be designed to be free of flutter. Classical bending-
torsion flutter is not of concern because of the large
separation between the fundamental bending and tor-
sional frequencies of propeller blades How- (Ref. 52).
because of its po- flutter is α major concern ever, stall
tentially destructive torsional vibration. There are
two apparent causes of high torsionalblade vibra-
tion: aerodynamic hysteresis and Karman vortices
(Ref. 53). Aerodynamic hysteresis can cause diver-
gent, self-excited torsional vibration and is, therefore,
true flutter. The Karman vortex excitation, however,
is not true flutter but α forced excitation. It neverthe-
les is similar to hysteresis stall flutter and can caue
large amplitudes of structural response and possible J
failure.
\ Torsional dynamic divergence due to stall flutter
"Occurs because of the phase lag in the aerodynamic

AMCP 705-202
circulation variation with airfoil torsional motion.
Beca.,ac the vortex formation must travel to infinity
before full circulation develops, the airfoil angular
motion tends to lead the aerodynamic mo- change in
ment about the elastic axis. When the airfoil motion
and phase lag combine appropriately, aerodynamic
energy is into fed the structural system qnd sclf-
excited divergent torsional blade oscillation occurs at
the fundamental torsional frequency of the blade.
Although methods have been developed for
analytically predicting stall flutter (Ref. 54), expcri- I
encc shows that α general understanding of stall
flutter and empirical relationships usually is suffi-
cient to evaluate whether α given blade design will be
subject to this phenomenon. Tests and analyses have
shown that stall flutter is dependent primarily upon
three factors: the reduced frequency, the blade angle.
and the airfoil Mach number (Ref. 55). The effects of
Mach number can be combined with the reduced
frequency to give the stall flutter parameter SFP.
. β
SFP , ,β, ,σ. SF, δ'less (5-18) , J
aM'ω/1 - Ω
where
, naturai torsionai frequency,. ad/sec
- local Mach number, dimensionless Μ
 β, - blade semichord, ft
α = speed of sound, fps
When full-scale and model blade stall flutter test
results for many propellers under static conditions
are combined in α plot of versus blade angle, SFP
points indicating the onset of flutter form α gener.λ
trend, as shown in 1 Fig. 5-40. he envelope of these
flutter points may be used as α design basis. Although
Ref. 55 shows that α blade whose is greater than SFP
riot 1.0 will flutter regardless of blade angle or power.
Fig. 5-40 shows that, for !ow blade angles, α blade
may have an of less .0 than I without being SFP
susceptible to stall flutter.
Because the design line in Fig. 5-40 is drawn
without regard to such secondary effects as camber,
twist, it is, sweep, and center of thickn'ess, planform,
in general, conservative; ι.ε., although the of α SFP
blade lies under the curve, the blade will not
necessarily flutter. In general, increasing the camber
and thickness and shifting the center of twist forwurd
will increase the blade angle at which flutter occurs.
The effects of planform are and sweep more difficult
to assess, because the stability of the blade involvts
the integrated effects over the entire blade. Thus.
although some blade sections are stalled, the blade
itself will be stable unlss the integrated energy fed
into the blade is greater than the structural damping
present.
5-63