*.17
CLIPS
OUTER
SKINDEALOTRSI
'1FRAME
STRINGER.
LINER RIVETS
RIVETS
(TYPICAL)
φ 010
Α VIEW DETAIL
Ila3. Figin
11-3' ]BULKHEADS(
function much the same frames, as Bulkheads
have and utility. Generally, udded capability
ame introduced such as landing loads loads - -
their redistributed within wre bulkheads and
such or aft as fore of-plane restraints, plane. Out
be also may provided. tank [Qtds,
of plane bulkhead the in the Stiffenes
must the web. The stiffcuners into ritting loads
stilfcn against web inertia to the sulliaenat
buckling. bulkheads should all trophic The webs of
designed to prevent oil-canning. Bulkhead be
must be stiii enough to resist coiumn buckiing,
loaded, well as to provide skin restraint. as
from fittings sheared the should into be
little as with occ~tricity possihle, as
less Edge be distances of fasteners should not
two times the fastener diameter wherever
blind fasteners avoided. Low-strength should be
out* should be reinforced, while attachments
unsupported be because web should not madec
bration may cause cracking.
required for bulkheads The strength niajor
attained employing forgings. Final dimensions by is
obtained are machining. by
11-3.5 SKIN SUDSYSTIEMS
arz dcfied as subsystems structural Skin
composed of longerons, stringers, and skin. If
is used in α monocoque wich conittruction

Α VIEW
STRINGER
- IN
FRAME FLANGES
Used Frinme for Ttuk Suppor
usea. [MUun. 01 not =Γ5weniW weE someC tCSC
Longerons ar6 primary aitial-load-carrying but the
optimal distances from major members, and are situated at
de. of the airfrmniv. aixes They bending neutral at the amr
loads and the secondary to column own signed withstand
to is nacessary it skin usually of tension field. fuel effects
siringers between longerons intermediate locate to
panel size. skin coatrol distribute
distributed be should material Bending (stringers) have
to limit of α elements. in order among large number catas-
damage to the reduction of static strength following
ons. member. Again, oil-canning should pro- be .¶langes
proper panel sizing. 11-4 presents by if vente so
Fig.
Loads suggtsted panel dimensions.
splices and bulkhead Stringer and longeron should scarfed be
attachments should multiple provided. The fasteners
be loaded in shear. Fastene types should not be than
possible, mixed in α splice.
Cut- Doublers around exces should providod η*oles be
to an the skin. Because ren, oval enlarges through repeated
should accss be vi- the fastener holes, hole covers not
designmd to load-cprrying. be Minimizir4 the number
usually of cover fasteners makes servicing faster and, hgonor,
more economical.
11-3.6 CORROSION PROThCrION
Protection of parts against corrosion can be ac-
in two wayt. is One app~ly method covernugs comuplished to
to atemospheres from cown- sand- coatings prevent corrosive
to ing in contact with airframe parts. is in- The other conflgu-