AMP706-202
This still down to zero. potential the vehicle bring
to the shocks to give potential sufficient permits
α con- of using The technique crew. ground-handling
per- ground, and to the from the vehicle ducting cord
ground the ground before the it to contact mitting
the of has the disadvantage the load, handles crew
and helicopter downwash. by being whipped cord
will not nocesarily hold the vehicle pottntial down
con crew is in tact with continuou.ly while the ground
the load.
clec- static with external problem other major The
com- radio interference. The on helicopters is tricity
plexity of the problem is caused by: the variety of
of nois-generating charge-generating mechanisms,
modes mechanisms, and of coupling into the com-
munication systems; the difficulty in separating the
equipment inter- generated from internally effects
effects upon different the differences of fcrence; and
types of equipment.
interference- radio controlling of method The basic
includes:
external floating electrically of all Avoidance I.
the aircraft on sections
dis- passive or active of type some of 2. Use
the vehi- on the potentials, to reduce in order charge.-
conditions electrification cle friction under
DC the where in areas antennas of Location 3.
thunderstorm under minimized are fields electrical
conditions crossfield
antennas of radio-interite,-,cc-resi,"ant 4. Use
sub- surfac-σ diclectric external all of Coating 5.
so as paint& resistive with impingement particle to ject
over particularly interference, streamer to prevent
is the interference coupling plastic sections where
evere. most
com- In addition 'o the external problem, which is
of identification difficulty of proper plicated the by
the interference source. internal static electricity
7-32

helicopiers often are the fact that involve problems
little knowledge who posse by designers engineered
fuel of electrical interference by posed the hazards of
often is con- tubing example, plastic As an systems.
electrification Friction tubes. sidered for fuel jettison
the can ignite the= tubes surfaces of the plastic of
tanks and jetti- when the fuel particularly fuel vapors,
son tubes are nearly empty. As α solution to this
with saggested that all dielectrics problem, it has been
10' resistivity be carefully than ohm-cm α higher )φ
of such Thus, the use considered use. for aircr-,ft
from but freedom would be permitted, materials
static electricity hazards would have to be assured for
specific installation. each
LIGHTNING AND STATIC ELECTRICITY .
SPECIFICATIONS
con- α number of Military Specifications There are
MIL- protections. and taining to surges reierences
transients of limits accep:able the defines STD-704
specifies systems. MIL-Α-9094 power electrical on
for arresters λ~ghtning aircraft for requiremerts the
to in- be extended will it probably and antennas, HIF
MIL-E-6051 vehicles. into all penetration dlude surge
specification, compatibiiity eiectroinagnetic the is
MiL-Β- limits. EM pulse to permissible refers and
specification military bonding standard is the 5087
bonding jumpcr waveforms, current test covers and
lightming-induced canopies, and protection of sizes,
speci- other are There limits. penetration surge
listed those but to lightning, with reference fications
on data specific with principal ones herein are the
requirements. and test arrangements, waveforms,
REFERENCE
74Α, DN 1. Wilng Aircraft Susceptibility, Rotary
1-4, DH 10 January 1972. AFSC