external 4. Crowning of the member tooth
major and diameter
5. Increased oil flow or othek lubrication improve-
meats.
4-2..34 Splme Streqi Analysh
pressurts bearing allowable gives 706-201 AMCP
classifications St, for various of involute splines.
practice current aximate app values reflect These
the helicopter industry and are defined by
2Q/ psi (DF). SA•, =
where
- pitch diameter, in. Δ
- face width. in,
Q lb-in. - torque.
for standard SAE or ANSI Β5. ι tooth proporti
where tooth addenda are one-half those AGMA of
standard 201.02 gears. However, these values
repreaent true bxanring prssures because the
, curacies, stiffneuses, and gecmetric proportions
picai spiines combine rupe the truc cointact in
Eq. in assumed tacitly 100% than the less to
by determined is splines of accuracy The
inspc..ion of method the and specified as tole'ances -"
manufacture. of method the by than rather employed
systems), gaged (go-no-go gaged be Splines may
partially inspected analytically, or completely
pecaed analytically in the manner of gears.
following values of the fraction of theoretical
σ achieved with splines of the various classifications
are realistic.
SC,,•Usifi"WAt Fraction Contact
0.2• CI15 USASI Gaged
(commercial grade)
measured Iand Gag
< 0.7 -υ C 1.5 measu0.45 Β.19 ANSI
ANSI Β5.15-1950C.5
Analytically measured
'υ •0.95 50% 0.75 < SAE .3 (about C1
tolerance of Β5.15 CI.5)
The variation of within each classification is -υ
pendent upon stiffness, proportions, and, in some
stances, the ductility when the design load
proaches limit shear strength.
An external involute splint with face width
on α solid shaft will exhibit greater Δ.13
strength than the shaft if (outside diameter of Δ.
shaft) is only slightly smaller than the spline
diameter Δ,,,. Therefore. excessive spline lengths
offer littlo 6cnefit while incrcasing manufacturing

AMCP 70Ω-202
flanks ficulty and coats. Reasonable proportions for spline
pitch arc: Δ, fae width F and diameter
torque-transmitting for 1.0 < 0.4 FID,,
applications
0.8 < < 2.0 for lowation and alignment ap- FID,
plications.
en- be can uniformity load tooth Lengthwise in
hanced further by adjusting the shaft diameters and
wall thicknesses to secure matching torsional de-
at radial stiffness and by avoiding excessive flections
(4.55) either end of the spline joint. Stress concentration
must be avoided by specifying minimum fillet radius
values, chamfeting or otherw*ise blending tooth ends
into the shaft section, and achieving uniform loading.
For most helicopter applications, spline fatigue en-
criterion oscilla- because limiting is not the durance
tory loading due to shaft bending or torque fluctua-
tion is avoided by proper design. bending fatigue If is
α design consideration, recourse to use of the modi-
do not fled Goodman diagram (par. 4-2.2.1.2) with ap-
ac- propriate stress concentration factors is required.
ofrty- Static stress analyses must demonstrate α positive
rea margin of safety boh for limit torque compared toa-
coar- torque ultimate for and strength yield material 4-55.
spline Limit strength. ultimate material to pated the
system drime maximum as α defined is torque 1.5
limit 1.5 as torque μ ultimate and torque continuous
λ 1 α torque and
torque.
in- The following spline static stresses should be cal-
The culated in addition to the bearing stress values SW.;:
contact 1. Spline shear stress Σ;
'.- 4Μ•" -' 3Δý
1<.4
where
Q torque, lb-in. - spline
- number of spline teeth
in. thickness, tooth circular - Τ,
dimension- fraction of theoretical contact, -
less
2. Torsional shear stress (external toothed mern-
• de- bers) Σ,
in-
ap-
π (4-57) 16QD.,
F ,- _ u(,/ Δ,-) - -
shear
the
minor where
can - inside diameter of shaft. in. Δ,
dif- - minor diameter of spline, in. Dw
"4-59