'Σ~.j~ι.-ι ~ ZuJ.~ *J~κ 4;
< - .
AMACP 706-202
results. In addition, the modulation is in α nonsinu- based upon heat rise can developed for be various
be soidal manner and the harmonic content is high. The critical ambient tenmperature situations. It must re-
variable and reference modulation in α VOR is 30 Hz anari o vial ntegon Iebrdta
is and thc localizer and glidescope frequencies are or when the helicopter hovering; therefore, either 90 I
and 150 Hz; these are convenient all harmonics. This, auxiliary air from outside the aircraft or engine bloed
coupled with the fact that helicopter rotor air must used to meet speed be cooling requirmecnts.
is be often such as to give harmonics of and 30. 90. 150 α particular helicopter if is to multiuse α air-
Hz creates prublek-as for avionic system designers. craft, requirements applicable to the various uses
Techniques have been developed, as discussed in par. must considered. α single airframe be If is to used be
of for phase inversion and cancellation 8-3.2, the for two or more different types of missions, the
modulation. This technique shows promise of solving avionic configuration design must accomplish all
the problem. However, the characteristics of certain requirements economically.
existing ground "aci~ities are such that when this Environmental test requirements should be foiiiiu-
techniqusv is used one error sitaply is exchanged for lated during the initial helicopter planning phase and
should another. In any case, it is essential that nmanu- consider enviro.nmental conditions to all be
encountered. helicopters incorporate facturers, of equipment for
very narrow bana filters into their equipment, and
π'-ocurement should be based 8-2 upon COMMUNICATION this criterion. In EQUIPMENT
addition, antennas must be decoupled from the main
8-2.1 GENERAL insofar as is possible. rotor
In general, helicopter avionics do not have to be Army helicopters coutairt many combinations of
desit~ned to withstand the altitude er~tremes that communication equipment. Because of the rapid de.
fixed-wing avionic systems do. velopment of new devices and the chanzges in nouier-
Dust and sand are more of α problem to helicopter clature, no specific radios are referenced in this
avionic equipmcri to whan fixcd-wing Cquipmontn. chceLer.
) Diiit can pack up in voltage regulators, iotating The typts of communication eq'ripmen! currently
equipment, relays, switches, and othei critical de- in use include high frequercy, HF (3-39 MHz) -very
vices and cause malfunctioas, If these components high frequency, VHF (FM') (30-75.9 MHz); VHF
cannot be hermetically scaled, they must have: (Α.Μ) (118-150 MHz); ultra high frequency, UHF
shrouds or other protective covering, and they will re- (AM) (225.400 MHz); and millimetei wave. typical Α
quirt additional mrintenance, communication block diagram is shown in Fig. 8-I.
Helie'opter vibration must considered be bas'4 Guidelines for the radio installaiwn iaicludcl:
upon the installation of all equipment. The addition Tlae transmitter 1. should be mounted in close
of equipinent, particularly in the it~struriicnt panel, proximity to the antenna in eirder to preclude line
affects the frequencies and amplitudes of vibrietion. losses.
rr!ι ;ρ.: With the &aJvcnt of solid-state components, vibration 2. The control head shoulti bv -. I te. pro-
prob~lems have beecn reduced, but most internal Comn- vide ease of access for the flight clew.
ponents sitill are, vulrerable to vibration fatigue. Routing 3. of audio wires should such be asIQpe
While avionic manufacturers qualify their products vent crosstalk and feedback.
to α specification, the applicable specification cannot 4. Power leads should of sufficient be size to per-
duplicate absoluttly the situations enc ountered in the mit fUl generator/battery voltage to appear at the
actual in.,taliation. Therefore, it is desirable to dc- radio under transmit conditions.
sign for α minimum level of vibration. 5. Componenns should mounted be in an area
sufficient cooling will be avaik~ble. ranges may severe. dependine wheic be Temperature
areas low-vibration area should provided for 6. Α β-- upon ambiznt conditions. Because of the large
of trinsparent. windihielO or canopy, solar heat can mounting. The vibration limitations for communica-
become α problem when the doors are closed and the tion equipment are identified normally in the ap-
helicopter is on the groanrd. Avionic packages are plicable equipment installation specification (SCL-I-
good lieo.' sinks; they will absorb α great deal of heat OOXX).
of these guidelines contributes to die re- and will kot dissipate it for some .imc after be- Each
coming airborne. Some ground tcniperatur! con- liability of the overall system, and, thicieforrr, is cs-
ditions 4re worse than conditions in flight. sential lor helicopter mission accomplishment.
temperature survey it an important design Α con- Transmission lines, usually coaxial cables, are used
sidcration for avionic equipment installation. Data to cai the transmitted signal ρ) to the antenna and the
8-3