tooling, airframe tooling, and tast tooling. The latter made material and the the ports arm iade from areAl
to be used. in the type of toolin determining factors require shop tooling. may, in turn. two categories
used in plastk. common elements Then are three
17-7.2 SHOP TOOLING tooling:
operations Cutting in the shop are performed, for a. Mock-upls
ex.. wooden (1) standard tools or with the most part, with
s filled (2) piAsto part of contract become that do not tools pandable
b. Molds: tools bar special however, occasion, On inventory.
may be required boring, reaming, mecessing, high temperature epoxy fo (1)
grooving. undercutting, and similar operations. Most (2) low temperature wood
of the specias tools for shop use are jigs and fixtures (3) matched
for holding the work piece and guiding the work per- (4) aluminum shell
formance. c. Trim tooh5.
be tools in tbAse classifications may de- Special
17-73 AIRFRAME TOOLING signed for inapectior., or for the application to tting
Fabrication of helicopters requires the transfer of of fabricated parts or system3 us!ng the test tools des-
numerous dimensions from an engineering drawing cribed subsequently.
Basic decisions as to tcolinig design must be made or prototype to the item beinxg built. Where the
number of items to be built is small, and the per- concurrently with design of the airframe. Tooling
and will be initiated soon as a flow chart as not too great, the. structure drawings formane requirements
can be produced economically by extracting di- production breakdown are possible; the basic tool
mensions directly from a blueprint. However, for the philosophy and procedures must be established at
| 1 ý . A - - - . . -W L .. - ... - ..- .- . . . ... - -. -' .! -
cise tools have been developed for transferring the allow maximum latitude for airframe deign changes
configurations of nondimensional. lofted, full-size while minimizing the need for redeign of tooling.
drawings to the actual structure, even thoukh por- Continuity of datum points and coordinate refer"ce
tions of that structure are manufacturn by many dif- lines and planes must be retained at all times.
will The five primary types of tools In most cases, the tooling proemses employed ferent manufacturers.
tmployod ae: involve all five types of tooling discuseed, but will re-
Master tools, designed so that dimensions for ly more heavily upon one type for configuration con- 1.
the entire helicopter can be referenced to several trol and quality assurance. The quality assurance
will be determined almost completeiy by the master tools. Each tool is the three-dimensional program
system are era- smun selcted since the system. processes a key portion of the representation of
for production. as for inspection suit- ployed metal or other thin plate of Templates, a 2.
introduced when variat 1 be or pattern. Considerabie that may be used a guide as Pieo material --
A template generally defines the profilr, contour, or numerical control loft... employed. In cas - thi
data are transmitted in mathematical or an as- the engineering holm; the bend lines of a part, layout of
tools are possible, form. Automatically programmed partL sembly layout of several
or producing computer working from, tools constructed with a Optical tooling, a system of 3.
telescopes at one end and targets at numerical-control drawings. with alignment
the other end. Witt the use of such line-of-sight tools Provision must be made for special situations. For
Stogether with master tooling bars, incre- exampl, becaum of the small cross section and the gages,
ment bars, optical micrometers, and a transit - the extremely close tolerances required in tk: menu-
configuration of a system can be conolled from a facture of rtor blade components, normal lofting
single datum line in six degee of freedom. practice may not be followed. These components may
4. Jigs and fitures, coordinated to the master be fabricated in closely dimensione detail. Rib and
took, position and hold the detail pars in el- other components may be lofted actual sie and blade their
tionship for drilling and fastening. Smaller or sub- provided with appropriately toleranced dimv sions
assembly componentr are fabricated in fixtures that for inspection purpose.
are coordinated to larger or main asmnbly Fixtures. When justified by the nur of units and the ýer
The large components then are loaded into joining or number of subcontractors, the manufacturing and as-
final assmnbly fixtures to complete the assembly of sembly processes may be built around the of use
the airfranwe. master tools. In this cam, quality assurance can be
Plastic Tooling. The number of parts to be improved simplified because mtew tools 5. and slint-
17-22