design is weed more commonly because it ia
aven thor:gh large bending moments
tay uader londinc conditions that in-
atuda cid loada, or componants other than along tibe
aental not oaly from the standpoint of the ronultant
strees, but alao because they increase the poesibility of
Jakage through the strut bearing and incroase strut
fricilon. This friotion can cause erratic sirut operu-
tion duriag landing and taxiing operations. How-
evwr, uee of prooer dearing materials, proper jocation
ae sanoesd Suproq mor pue 'Burag ε po
suitable prevestativess
For cantilever-mountexi struts, the boarings should
be spuood so that baaring strcss doas not axcoed 6000
pai under the desigr side load. U'iss distance betwoon
tihe outarmost onds of the upper and lower bearingt
with the strut fully axtended should be at least 2.75
times the piston diameter. For universal (pin cuded)
struts, which have littie taodoncy to bind, this die-
tance is only 1.25 times the pistor diamsier. With
theec parameters known, the Iougth of the strut can
be determined. The longth of α cantilever strut in tibe
extondod position is oqual to (Fig. 12-6):
_2.Q In. APPROXIMATELY
STROKE
EXTENIDED 2.75 Ξ PISTON DIA FOR
STAJT CANTILEVER STHUT
LENGTH 1.25 Ξ PISTON DIA FOR
_UNIVERSAL STAUT
STROKE
2.0 in. APPROXIMATELY
Figure 12-σ. Deterudnation ef Strut Stroke

AMCP 706-892
2.75 × (piston ciameter) + 2ξ (stroke)
+ (ailowance for vpper cap and lower auie
clearangs)
This alkywancs, sbown in Fig. 12-6 as approximaialy
4.0 in., will vary with strut size. For universal-
mountod struta, the length in caiculatoc in the same
mainer as for the cantilever strut, exoept that the.
lower value of minimum bearing spacing is ussd. The
elimination of bending loads by α levered suspongion
thus rosults in α shortor strut. The use of this config-
uration is reoommendod for taii goar whore long trail
arms are dosirablo to roduce shimmy tendoncios.
À snubber or rebound riag is providod to reduce
the impact forcos upon the gear during sudden extent-
sions, such as those encounterod on takeoff and land-
ing rebound. Tbe strut in the fully extended position
and not souching the ground must be cape bie of roac-
ting to α rebound loed factor of 20 times the un-
sprung woight of the landing gcar, or throe timcs the
enx is greater.
Mixieg of air and oil is the oles can cause Jose of
strut amciency as the bydraulic fluid becomes
aeratad. Alao, foaming of the fluid takas place during
sarvicing. inurossing the powibity oi having the in-
correct amount of luid in the olso and thus reducing
some cf the onorgy-abeorption capability of the sirut.
Curroat prac ice is to instali α veparator piston, which
creates two separate chambers; thus, no mixing of air
and oil is possible. Tbe housing or outer cylinder is
usually oi forgod aluminum construction and consists
of boscs or lugs to provide the method of attachment
to the airfranre. Α sct of torque arms is niocessary to
roact the torque louas on the gear dua to pivoting,
and to maiitain whod alignment by joining the
alidiag piston and fixod housing :0 as to parmit only
an axial dogree of froedom. Main goar torque arms
uaually are constructod of forged aluminum, with the
angle berweeu the arms limitod to 135 deg. Nose goar
torque arms, being susceptible to ahimmy, may be of
sisel construction with α lesser anglc, and may use α
knuckle deaign (multiple lugs) at tho apex end.
The duaign of nose and tail wheels must include
cuntering spritkge to insure proper alignment of the
wheols during Ianding and sufficient damping of
angular motion to prevent shimmy during run-on
landing and taclng. Shimmy is α self-excited, rapid
oscillation of thc landing gear that occurs at or above
critical landing speods. Basicaily. shimmy is the result
of α lateral misaiignmen: betwoon the belicopter CG
and the ceuter of contact of the tire with the ground.
The gear is deflkected to one side, but α restoring force
due to the clasticity of the gonr and its supporting
structurs causes the whoel to move back. It then over-
12-7