parad to 1 500 mi for fixed-wing aircraft. Bearing sizos
can be cstablicbed by the methode outlined in Ref. 2
or α comparable relier bauring har dbrok. À soal or
other moans of preventing water from entering the
corrosion.
12-1.1.3.3 Sbeck Struts
The most commonly-used devices for absorbing
cnergy during α landing, and for supporting the heli-
coptar during taxing and ground operations, are mo-
chanicci springs, liquid springs, and sir-oil struts.
Otber methods ot absorbing energy (usually referred
to &σ socondary energy or ono-time application usagc)
are:
φ. Cruabatle structures, ε.γ., honcycomb
2. Friction devices, ι.o., two materials in contact
with cacis other
3. Exiruc ing Gevicos, ε.3., metal drawn through an
undersiaod bole
4. Cutting χ vices, ε.γ.. α shrrp edge slicing
through mctal as it movos 3. Fiastic deformation, ι.ε., material stretched
beyond the clastic limit.
Thesc devicos are mentionod as possible solutions
wben an euergy abeurption beyond the normal land-
ing gear cagability is desirod.
The most commonly-usod mechanical spring is the
cantilever type, with eithor α tiat or α tubular cross
soction. These can be considerod to have α linpar lond
defloction curve if they are not strossed beyord the
dlastic iuni:. Otber types of grochanical springs —
such as Belleville washers, ring springe, and_rubber
— bave nonlincar load defloction diagrams. Dam-
ping is small (usuaiiy due oniy to ioss of energy at tine
support, or frictional forces beatweon clementa).
Bocause the rprings return far more energy than they
dissipate, the use of spring landing gesr usually is
limited to light aircraft. Tbe lack of damping alao in-
creasas the likelihood of ground resonance.
Both the liquid spring and the air-oil strus absorb
cnergy by the deahpot principle, forcing fluid uncer
prossure through an orifice. In either application the
arca of the oriñice may be fixed or may vary with dis-
placoment, as α metering pin of varying diameter
moves through α fixod orifice. In the liquid spring tbe compressibility of the fluid
is v aod to store epargy. Spocial consideration must be
giv. Α in the gland designs to the high prosures at
which thcac units oporatc. The sonsitivity to changes
in temperature also must be considerod. For examplc,
to accommodate low tamperatures, the unit prob-
ably will be pressurized in the extended, or un-
loadod, cqudition to 2000 pei and special fortures

AKcP. 706-202
such as α "decuparator" unit must be provided to
limit the pressure rise due to high temperature. Α
liquid spring is particuiarty well suitod for short
stroke applications with leverod goar arrargonenta,
but any longth stroke can be schioved by proper com-
bination of piston rod diameter and total volurao of
oil. In fact, with tail rod liquid spings, exceptionally
long strokes can be achioved. For servicing α liquid
spring without jacking the helicopter α chsrging
pressure of 20,000 pai is requirod, while the maxi-
mum charging pressure roquired probably is 2000 pai
when the spring unit is unloaded and fuily extonded
by jacking the helicopter.
In the air-oil strut α chamber of compressed air is
used to restore the strut to α suatic position and to
provide α cushion while taxiing and ma reuvering the
helicopter on the ground (Fig. 12-3). The efficiency of
nee 01 ss doup kq usous σ eos o jo sh sψ
be betwoon 80 ais 93%. Α conscrvatively low valuc
for the shock absorber efficiency shouid be uaad,
together witl .he specified resorve energy descent vo-
locity and the dosign limit landing load factor, to es-
tablish the maximum strut stroke required to absorb
the toiai reserve energy. This design calculation is die-
cussrd in pcs. 4-10.3, AMCP 706-201.
The lower values of efficiency are applicable to
struts containing fixod orifices. The higher values arc
achieved by the introduction of α mctering pin. This
configuraton provides α variable orifice, which can
METERING PIN
ORIFICE AND BEARING
SNUBBER
PISTON
CYLINDER
HYDRALILIC FLUID
LOWER BEARING
SEPARATOR PISTON
AIR
Fignre 12-3. Typical Air-O8 Strut in Static
12-5