8CP 706-202
usually is prefcrable in order to include the esfocts of
load iranafer butwoen components. For bonded,
woldod, or otberwisc permanently fastened assem-
blies indivicual component test dats must be ac-
quised; or Σ-N dats of such components in like
material, procrss, and configuration may be
ampiovad, if available. Thcac data should be mod-
ifiod by use of the Goodman diagram or other acccp-
table means to relect the presence of steady loads as
appropriate. Methods of obtaining acceptable com-
ponent Σ-N deta are discussed in par. Σ-7.2.
5-7.2 ENDURANCE LIMIT TESTING
5-7.2.1 Generel
Endurance limit testing generally is required to ob-
ta' data adequate to guarantec the service life for
rotor blades (sec par. 7-4.2.2.2, AMCP 706-203). This
is tasting in which thc material and/or part is sub-
jected to repested cycles of load, with or without α
steady, or constant, load maintained. The endurance
limnit for most homogenesus, near-isotropic materials
has Seen established, and is defined in MIL-HDBK-
5. Fatigue data for plastics and sandwich construc
tion arc containcd in MiL-HDBK-¡7 uad -23, respeo
tively. In most instances, these data are presented for
both smootl: and notchod specinicns. However, with
the introduction of many and variad reinforced
plastics and advancea composites, applicable fatigue
test resuits are not yet available in the litercture.
Basic tests thus will ie required for such advaneed
naterials.
It is alvays necessary to exercisc care in uzing data
that are related to the shape of material under con-
sideration. For exsmple, the use of shect stock in
rotor blgk: design diciete ite usc of tension-tension
fatigue data, wher available, to predict skin fatigue
life or the life of any part made from shect stock.
However, it may be more appropriate to use R. R.
Moore roiating beann fatigue date when solid bar or
plate stock is integrated into the blade design. Ad-
ditionally, an appliesble notc. factor, either inherent
in the tesign or resuftäng from the manufacturing
process is of primary inuporence.
To confirra α materiai selectic:, it may be neces.-
sary to cogdues coupon trsts to subutantiate α per-
ticular material condition sot covered in the current
literature. In conducting the coupos: fatigue tests, it is
extremely important that the test msterial has beer.
subjected to ihe processes associated with fabrice-
ticn of the criticul comporent. In addition, tests shall
be corducted cn ths pertisseni material sbape, using
stock, bar, or plate as the design: dictates. Other
aspecta of the proposad component contiguration
such as edge condition, fillet radii, of snary bend
5-54

rsäii in joggles or over similar fitting sress, should be
included in the specimens testod.
Fatigue or endurance tests shal! be conducted on α
sufficient number of coupons for ench condition. The
number of coupons never shall ibe less than fivc.
However, if the standard deviation ofithe data points
for any teat condition exceods 15% of he sean strees,
additional coupons shall be tested.
Coupon tesis may be conducted on any suitable
test fixture or stand capable of applying an aiter-
nating load. The alternating load may be superim-
posed on α steady, or mean, load to produce α load
condition as show. in Fig. 5-31. In the normal rotor
blade load sprctrum., cach load condition is α combi-
nation of stesdy and alternating loads. Therefore, the
use of this loading condition for coupon testing is
rscommended.
Coupon Jesign depcads upon the type of material
being tested. When the material is shect metal stock
some forin of the "dog-bone" coupon should be
used. The transition from the gage seciion to the grip
areu shall be such as to climinate α stiess concentra-
tion due to saction change. An acceptable racius for
such α transition is given in Ref. 47. Additionally,
care must be tahen with ibe adge condition of shcet
stock coupons. The machining of the edge should be
controlled so es to pfevent thermal degradation of
the material ncar thr edge. Edges should be prepared
to α polished conoition by using fint grit sandpaper
or by burnishing. In this manner 3 base line endu:-
ance limit can be estabiished that will permit uotch
and safety fa tor reductions from α reliable reference.
ALTEFNATING
STRESS
STRESS MAXIMUM
STECY
SIRESS
MIN!MLIM
STRESS
TIME
Figuse 5-31. Aiterwating Stres: Superimposed on
Stendy Stress