ACP Ξ:6-202
muet be woli supported to preverst excessive coning
u ader the action of the angles rolling elernent load
vector. Wnen only radial loads or light thrust loads
sr.s involseo, retaining rings or similas devices arc
setisfactory for axial retention. The diametral fit
genterally should be nominally line-to-line to ap-
ture to reduce ring rotation. Outer iing interference
us often are linited by requirements for case of as-
sembly and disssembiy. Higher speeds call for
eignter fits.
Outer ring rotation is normally opposite in direc-
tion to shaf rotation due to thr traction forces
exerted by tbe loadec rolling clements. However, in
the case of lighitly losded, outer-land-guided, cage-
type brarings, the viscous drag may be sufficient to
reverse the norm.
It is customary to uaz thetially fitted and pinned
steel liuers in aluminum or magnesium housings to
reduce wear and the rate of increasc in outer ring
mounting clearance due to rsing temperature. The
increased clearance at operating temperature should
be cornpenssted for wher the fit is specified at soom
fcanpe:nivre. In ihe absence of ineimal gradicnis, ihe
Eit in a massive stoel liner having the same coefficient
of thermal exparsion as the bearing will remain un-
changed at operating temperature, but the ft in a
Sighe ailoy housing without lincr will ioosen in
proportion with the product of bearing outside
diameter (OD) temperature rise, and the difference in
the thermal expansion corfficients of the alloy and
sicel. The change in thc outer ring fit in the presence
of & stecl liner instalied in a housing with con-
siderabic diametran interferençe will lic betwcen these
two boundary conditions, and is calculated easily. On
te sssumption that liner is fitted to a minimum of
250 deg F interference (line-to-line contact when the
temperature differeniial is 250 deg F) at room
temperature (par. 4-2.3.2), there is an appreciable,
unifo.m pressure at the üiner-housing interface. This
prensure resulte in an clastic reduction in the dia-
meier of the installed liner bore. As the temperature
is incrcased, tac pressure is reduced and the bore ex-
pando. Tne initiai pressure, and, hence, the expansion
rate, is dependent upon relative section thicknesses
plication of the clestic cylinder ineory (Ref. 83). Fig.
4-28 prescuts a graphic solution to the room tempera-
ture fit correction factor. To illustrate two practi-
cabie extrcenes, conditions are represented both for a
140-mm-OD bearing installed in a 0.045-in.-wall liner
chat is in curn fitted (250 deg F shrink fit) into a 0.05-
in.-wall thicknees sluninum housing: and for a 60-
mm-OD bearing. with 0.090-in. wall liner (250 deg F
4.50

т
shrink fit) and 0.040-in.-* I aluminum houzing. If
the operating temperature is 220°F, the correctione
are 0.0013 in. for the 60-mm bearing and 0.0038 in.
for the 140-mm bearing in this illustration. However,
when, as is often the casc, the bearing is the principal
heat source and the housing provides appreciable
hent conduction, thesc values should be reduced to
compensate for the tempcrature gradient. A
reascnatle ccrrection for most design applications is
60%. Conscquontly. the room temperature bearing
proximately 0.0008 in. for the 60-mm OD bearing
and approximate!y 0.002 in. for the 140-mm OD
bearing.
Occasionally, due to space limitations or a desire to
climinate unnecessary detai! components, integral ex-
Cernal flanges are used on bearing outer rings for
axial retention and prevention of rotation. In this
case. Care must be exercised to avoid radial restraint
at the flange holes so as to preclude race distortions
due to thermal or load-induced deflectiors. Under
the influence of high radial loads, a bearing of this
design always will exhibit greates stiffness at the
Sysu! pror iue Sugen sn pue sey
toward the flange. This characteristic can be used to
compensate for bending deflections of the shaft or
housing by appropriate location of the ilangc side oi
the bearing.
4-2.2.2.1.2 Labrication Tecbniques
While thzoretically it is true that only a slight
amount of oil is needed to lubricate retainct rubbing
surfaces and to supply fluid to rolling element-race-
way conjunctions. helicopter applications ofi*s :-
quire the use of substantially greater quaati :: oF ol.
For example, circulating oi may be used to rezivs
retainer wear particles, water condensation ond
sludge, and to transport spalling failure debris to chip
cetectors or similar diagnostic aids. Increased oil
flows also act to modulate temperature gradients by
forced convective cooling and help to reduce differen-
tial thermal expansion distortions that otherwise
could reduce component life. As speeds and loads in-
crease, thermal stability can be attained only through
the rapid rates of cooling provided by high oil flows.
In sddition, centrifugal accclerations and windage
barriers at ligh speeds make it very difficult to get oil
to inner raceway and cage lands, ieading to a require-
ment for forced pressure lubrication. Finally, critical
bearings often must be lubricated by redundant
systems so as to incrcase opcrational reliability and
permit safe operation should the primary system fail.
Generally, lubricant applications may be grouped