AMCP 706-202
overpower levels. The "'small-cutter" and oiher
of spiral bevel gears tend to resist pattern shift
increasing power and are good candidates for
cessful overpower testing. Iir well designed
gear reductions, it is not uncommon to find α
test at α 125% overpower in uait stress for crease
stant spvcd.
ball bearing of limitation The mechanical 3.
There be exceeded. constraints must not path
and bearing height shoulder race be sufficient
at the fully ball path the to retain ing rigidity
condition. power test
have should bearings roller Cylindrical 4.
(or -ficient roller crown race crown) to preclude
ent lercong ra to o prcreade σ
end lo an du eton
Ssimple Hertzitan deflection.
-vrpwe. The increased thermal gradients preent
Sovinrpower result testing must not in excessive
preloading or gear misalignment due to housing
tortions.
criteria Design for successful overpower
preclude must gear toatli bending fatigue failure,
crushings, or scuffing (scoring) failure modes. Ac-
fencatidte ceromi eon wear without τ of σ
test the specified gearbox for of the function
te is criterion of success.
4-1.4.4 Other Sibsbmatlatlon Life RelabUilty and
Testing
Α 200-hr qualification test is required by
706-203, and follows the tests in the preceding
graphs. Also required are α 50-hr preflight
test (PFAT) and α 150-hr "must pass" qualification
test in α ground Beyond test vehicle (GTV).
tests, it is frequently desirable to conduct
bench or GTV tests to assist in the determination
initial TBO levels and to uncover failure modes
detected in previous tests. All testing in these
gories is based upon spectrum loading conditions.
The selected spectrum should have an RMC
level in excess of the anticipatcd flight
Because most lubrication system elements
shaft seals) exhibit failure modes that are
to power levcl, no meaningful accelerated test
programs exist for the lubrication system, and
evaluation requires the accumulation of many
hours. Although the majority of lubricat;on
components will have undergone some degree
evaluation in early tests (par. 4-1.4.1), evaluation
their performance in the total system environment
must await these extended time or endurance
4-32

types 4-2 TRANSMISSIONS
with 4.2.1 FAILURE MODES
suc-
planetary Many competing failure modes exist simul-
50% in- tancously in any mechanical transmission device. The
as often represen- dominant are modes rewognizod con-
in which the observation phase tative of the life-χ' cIe
of definition and classification, Recognition, is made. load
to successful fundameptal limits are operating safe should
as primary be identified may modes Failure design. mount-
In one study of analysis. ease for secondary and over-
for the at overhaul replacement on component based
were failures secondary gearbox, CH-47 and UH-ι suf-
severe shown to exceed primary failures least an order by at
ever of magnitude (Ref. 46). Although the majority of
design effort is directed toward preventing primary
area, fai! the cost of drive subsystem maintenance and
during overhaul reflects the total of both categories. There-
bearing fore, reduction in secondary failure modes is an im-
dis- portant objective for future design.
testing
case 4-2.1.1 Prfry Faili Modes
desin ae fmp odnan iderv iaiecause thosoet
of some because render unservicenaif α comomnnt intervan
other than nor- conditional occurrence .self-genrated
mal wear. Cracked, broken, pitted, or spalled elu-
ments that fail while operating at normal loads,
speeds, and ,nvironmental conditions are repre-
sentative of this failure category.
There is α reasonable statistical level of occurrence
for primary failures, perhaps on the order of
AMCP 0.5%/ 1000 hr, that typifies the normal dispersion as-
sociateed para- with acceptable and cost-effective design
assurance practices. Failure rates in excess of this level aor con-
sidered α result of design or manufacturing defi-
Identification these ciency. and elimination of components
extended with excessive failure rates arc the objectives of the
of qualification assurance testing outlined in AMCP
not 706-203.
cate- Properly designed zystems and manufactured drive
must not exhibit catastrophic primary failure modes.
power It is not unreasonable to expect primary modes to be
spectrum. exclusively noncatastrophic. This criterion may be
(including satisfied by inherent redundancy in load paths or
insensitive load sharing, or by failure prcgression rates that arm
commensurate with available built-in failure de-
tection its and die.goostic δ,. vices.
test ,.onscientious application of classical structural
system analysis methods as modified by relevant test and ser-
of vice experience, coupled with adequate quality as-
of surance methods, effectively will eliminate static and
bending fatigue failures. However, the surface dura-
tests. bility of loaded members such as gear teeth and