4. Te iniorupt tbe weapus firing wiben aay other
predouarmiaed coaditions ars considered to be hazar-
Fire insncrugiers dous to porsonaal or to the vebicia. merally are slectronic, and unc
se pue norgonod mud suyuuonp on scdog egets onses a l nogee noprgzuy Agmuegod e on deqoogaau
inarrupt is coatroäed by ciresaitry located on apecific
tronic, they suay not pcasens the positivr control
found in such mechanicel devices as coniour fotlow-
ors. En theis regard, for safety. particuler emphasis
must be placod upon Ésihure analyris of fire isserrupt
poqe pofoqieco aq Auen srsadr.asgug age rooganp pppe rog sgqAp Sugraeg-paen pauns eAgigod qa
sefaty.
I 2.A.3 Comboer Fallacers
Tise cociour follower is a ponitivs mechanical
sragas of lazaitiong tas ot travel in thoss areas in whocio
uaafe opration otharwies wouid resudt. It usually is
a cam boails into tae tarret in order 8e prevenet firing az
a virg stors, for exampls, as the ges barred is alewad,
with the cans allowing tihe Serret to cogtour follow a
pil Bonsd ths Nore. Ths ca coAou mus te
guun digpersion pasitionaci so tiha: the gua traved, an limitod with tihe pooud, is at a suie cistance
-Juccirane sug jo esonp eae Tore pomarqasdl s reo.j
ing structiare anuat be aech as to &void uasafe defioc-
й timn if the gus striècs tbc cootour dt mgrimums rota-
tional velpcity.
34-2.Α4 Fart Limi0ε7σ
o. wepoas can craste Sazardous situaioas. Firing of Ovecbosted gua barrehs on fixed or turresad
mprhine guns for axteaded burots can cousc
i. Damiage to tbe weapon
2. Weaporr malfunction, rith the atienden? por-
aibility of misfire or of esploding ammunition, which
could result in damage tr: tbe holicopter or inju y to
personnel 3. Inability to ro-fire the weapon until efies a con-
siderabie ccol-off period. Burse-limiting devicas geoerally are clasifio* es
gun barrel. A tisso-limiting device cen be located peraturo-sensing device sormally is located on the
remotedy in the weapon control circuitry. ARMCOM
sbould be consulted for information adout burzt- limiting requiremenis for apocific guns ana for details
about currunt turst-limiting devices.
14-2.4.5 Ceckyit Nodee
baaring. prodiuce sanovance and diacomfort reduce

й
the lovel of aicitlad
bamee Bruar 80
a fancth N0 3
and tis aiue of
is conccmtrat
Tbe basyau eat
soundo, aascchs as grnfire, fos t
Inoting ot en, bust po iti
of 8s-st dil er above caal cu ags to tns aer danti
reoucltnest bearing laes. T'hne ad onps
anpoeure, wtaide 136 di can be toiorasnd for acsty 39
sec. Desiga siven da vasgdusicen ef
scios problanne in ordar so achieve cade ogat:uatisar.
Thue liunitiag of noies to safe iovels con bhe aesar-
plinbsd by: 1. Direct redactioes of noine &t aa: voepaut,
tihrouga the uoe of s aaate davice padad Sepenov aunpe wrorq Sundung 7
sions 3. Attonsietiga or refisction of ths somnd by munie
of inmaiaction, bafies, or eur-prciaciéon darices. Wesponc aiould te mosastad so provant diract aunes d.
reilinion tbrough epenlnge in te abreraft.
The applicable snäßitary apacificetion for crow comn-
STD-1472 stales that oguipment shalf not paerste
nouse in cucoe of the maxicaua: aliovable bovais
proscribed by HEL-$TD-S-1-63, AFR 1#0-3,
DuShips Specification S-1-10 BuMxilnet 6260.6A.
MIL-ST.-700, os MIL-A-Sen6, as applicabde. Tino
inpers of noise upon ths safety aad asiactivara s of
personnel is d'escribed in par. 13-2.2, AMCP 706-291.
Acoustical noisc delactasility is coverod in par. &-f.6,
AMCP 706-203.
14-2.Α.6 Delris Dispesal
Effextive diaposal of firos ammuastion cnuce, saic-
firod rounds, and links f oa a firing weapor mesei be
considerol from a safety design siancpoint. Detuie
amittod from a fixed ar turretad gun cur be:
1. Blowa into ibe balicopter structure with dama-
ging reault? 2. 3e datocied into antennas, ligns, exiteras!
sons, ac. 3. Be divertod by air currents into the maia or lail
rotors or engine inicta, causing pousibl catastrophic
Inilure 4. Cauge gun jams, rendering the woapon systcen
inoperable 3. Ac deflactod cuto coctpit graes arees, cauning
personnet injury. Cartain erapone provide sufficicnt dobris ajectiou
valocity to praclude debris dispceal probians wibsa
14-18