for installation In control od asseblie. Journal
bearings are in ores, such rotor head scissor used as
aemblies, whom the loads and speeds do not require
antifriction bearings. Sliding bearings α not subject
to fatigue failures of the type that occur in rolling-
and thus they afford an increased deleent bearings,
dcgree of reliability. However, slidinlg bearinp
exhibit wea characteristics that are dependent
loadWood. and environment. materials, lubrication.
STAKING
GROOVE
BALL
__I
LINER
MATERIAL
-O1UTER
RING
Figare Spherlcal 16-4. Aircraft OBering
TABLE PROPERTIES 16-6.
"LIMIT
PRESSURE
MATERIAL PROJECTED
SINTERED BRONZE 8500
TEFLON FABRIC 60,000
-GRAPHITE: CARBON
PLAIN 200-500
500-1000 "RESIN-IMPREGNATED

Gre-wlubricated siding bearings employ eithe
on stel-on-ateel members or sinted bronn mrunning
steel. both material ombintio are highly resistant
to wear if they are lubricated property and frequently.
In many helicopter applications (oscillating motions).
is however, daily lubrication of such bearingp
required in order to insure satisfactory operation.
upon Several self-lubricating materials are used currently
ρ ofates or insers on the sliding as liners
bearings. The most commonly used liner mat'ias,
carbon-graphite. and fabric Teflon are
Teflon fabric is relativdy easy to manufacture and
be can in bonded spherical both and journal bearings.
if and, coat in relatively low are bearinlgs Teflon-lined
properly protected, can provide very good service
However, the liner material is subject to deterioration
as α result of exposure to water, dust, and oil en-
are vironments. Teflon-lined bearings also limited by
the pressures and velocities tha: can upon be imposed
them. Table 16-6 gives limiting values of pressure and
com- velocity for Teflon fabric, as well as for other
(the monly used bearing materials. Α PV factor
product of pressure and velocity) is given in also the
table; this factor frequently is used as α parameter for
it initial deign. should emphasiz-δ that the valuai bc
given in Table 16-6 are approximate and should be
use self-lubricating used only as α guide. The of any
that requires component critical α in bearing sliding
pe.- be testing qualification controlled carefully
formed. Unlike life calculations for antifriction
bearings, those for Teflon-lined bearings, as given in
α as serve only can catalogs, manufacturers' most
the by modified be must and approximation rough
results of qualification testing and service experience.
OF SLIDING BEARING MATERIALS
FOR AIRFRAME USri
SIATIC LIMIT LIMIT PV SPEED
OVER (PRODUCT OF STRESS V,
AREA Π, AND SPEED) fp
ξ psi fpm psfpm
1200 2ρ,000
201 5000-15,000
200-500 15,000
12,000 500-1500
16-13