I
or required where weight resistance to corrosion
important.
Although there are no gerer~ι Military
rications on rivetinig, there are thui 50 miom
Specifiations covering particular types of rivets.
general tiveatment for riveted joints it. steel.
num, magnesium. and titanium is given in Chapter
MIL4IHDBK-Σ.
μ Waserssurface Mis, K% 17-4U
~and hejinswl wahen arcwd nutsote Bolts.
Dolt an nus otenareusedwhe θ jont
not permanx..τ and Ne disassembly can anticipated. be
Maximum strength of bolted joints can be
only when the grip longth the of bolt is at least
to the thickness of the being pairts joined. No
are to in bearitig be in the holes through the
permit to required as are added Washers
the bolt sufficiently to develop the load-carrying
capability of the joint,
All bolted joints must locked be or safetied, and
bolts in critical locations, such as in control
have two separate locking provisions. shill
locking provisions include nylon inserts; in the
) mnretviner&α not I nekmna and1 elatioe dg',piin
16.
~ failure of If threaded assembly α should occur,
-.-
preferable for the bolt to break rather than for
the external or the internal thread to strip. Thus,
leni'η of the threads should inatng sufficient be
to break the caMr the. load bolt without 14λ1 ncuiiqsar
stripping. The critical areas of mating threads
Effective crosssectional or tensile stress area 1.
the external thread
of thiz are 2. Shear external tlarcad (dependent
upon the minor dmiaeter of tha hole) tapptd
upoi the major diameter of external thread). ihe
When bolts are used to jo~in distimilat mectals,
join materials dissimilar" frok'u bolt the
coefficients differenme in the of thermal expansion
and in the temperature extremes specifiod for the
copter must considered be in caiculating the
mum stresses. Provisions alao bernade for mnust
such rosion protection installatvons. in
Box clearances given ω~rench are in Ref.
wrench access, bolt centtio should be placed
distancc minimum from obstruction of two
wrench clearance.
Plain are defined by washers ANSI Β27.2-1965.
These washers arm available in narrow, reguler,
wide series, with designed to ;roportieris
loads lare areaa over of lcwcr-stiength
* Plain wassers ame macie of ferrous, nonferrous,
or plastic, other nu2terials. ANSI Β27.1-1965

AMCP 706-202
are helical-spring-lock and tooth-lock washers. Helicd -1
spring-lock washers have du.ι α function. hcy Va.'τ, '
for looseness Sp~ci- compensate that may developed be
Military during the use of α bolt or screw fastener, preventing
losn Α oF tension between component parts the of
alurri- assembly. Secondly, they act as haidened thrust
8, bearings to facilitate assembly and disassembly of
bolted fasteners decreasing by the frictional
rcsistancc between the bolted surface and the bearing
bite washers Tooth-lock nut. or head of the
frictional increase and surfaces bearing the into
ill resistance to motion. These washers are made of car-
bon steel, corrosion-resistart steel, aluminum-zinc
attained alloy, phosphor bronze, and K Monel of varicis
equal series.
threads
parts.
Screws 174.3.3 tightening
Screws, particularly machine screws, may con- be
fused with bolts, Actually, the equations for strength
and the precautions on thread bearing are the same
for both. finkages, ANSA Β 18.6.3- covers both 1962 σ'otted and
Setf- recessed-head machine screws. Threads on machine
bolt or screws may be unified coarse either (UNC) or fine
Chanti'ρ I4ε.,ie hg'eht (IINFI thri~en ι nfe-mninto-eunkcrre
distance, parallel to the axis, the fromn the bearing
it is surface at the diameter of the screw τ3 the largest
eithtr diameter of the be,,ring surface. For scrows less than
the 2 in. long, the threads will run to within two turns of'
to the For head. longer screws, the minimum thread
length is 1-3/4 in. body is the unthreaded 'The cylin-
are: der portion of the shisnk. The designation of α screw
of thread consists of nominal size (inches or number).
number of threads per inch, of the thread letters
series, and class tolerance. of On the desig- drawings.
nation may followed be the pitch by diameter toler-
LK- following the class designation. The formulas for
and allowan~ces for the several or to tokcrancee series and
niateriai, classes of threads are given by ANSI Ω!.1-1960.
The heads of machiAne screws may recessed. be hex,
hel;- slottcd. round, countersunk, pan, cheese, or mush-
mexi- room. Tapping and metallic drive screw types inc'ude
cor- rouind head, flat head, flat and oval trim head, uiidcr-
cut, Struess, pan, N'liste:, and hex head.
3. For Sh~ct-mrtal screws are defined in ANSi Β 18.6.4-
at α Some 1966. of' these, when turned into α hole of the
times the proper size, form α thread displacing by the sheet
metai, while others form thread α cutting by action.
There arc 12 types, each having preferred applica-
tions with shieet metal, kind plywood, nonferrous castings,
distribute plastics, etc.
mattrials. Sct screw~σ arc used for preventing α pulley, gear, or
other part from turning relative to shaft. α Generally
deines sp.caking, 1/4-in.-diaineter screws will hold againbt α
17-11I