1433 ARMOR INSTALLATION DESIGN
CONSIDERATIONS
Thbe basic approachas to the armor type protection
of helicoptars from ground tire consist of:
1. Miacement of armor in very closc proximity to
the component for which protoction is required.
2. Incorporstion of armor into the vehicle struc-
ture or into the component structuze
3. Consideration of bencnts gained (if any) from
the shiolding (nauking) effocts of helicopter structure
atd/or componenis.
Thess baric approaches have been divided into tirec
-
mor, paraitic armor. and indigenous armer.
Intogral armor consiots of armor incorporated into
the aircraft as ε repiscement for component atructure
(ε.γ.. hydraulic sctuatcr housings, which are
fabricated from &rmor) or for cxisting loud-carrying
sructure. The moet obvious uac of the integral armor
concopt is in the floor of an aircraft having relatively
amali crow stations and/or arcas of vulnerable com-
ponenes. Integral armor can be expoctod to be heavy.
and tibus is fimitod generally to smalier installations.
gral armor is that it is generally metalic. The ceramic
compositae and othcr nonmetallic materials are net
well suitod for usc as load-carrying snenbers because
of their lack of strength or low ductility. Also,
instalation, materials having poor multiple-hit-pro-
toction capability are not suitable. Permanent or inte-
gral armor should be made from materiaks that have
ibe capability to withstand multiple hits, and that can
be repaired in some manner without the neccssity for
romoving structure or components.
Parasitic armor is autached in some manner io the
belicoptes structure. It provides only ballistic protec-
tion. and dos not function as α locd-cerrying
momber. This concept prc. ides more flexibility in the
seloction of materials than do thc integral and in-
digonous armor concepts. There are, however, po-
tontial drawbacks, including the need for sufficient
structural hard-points for adequate attachment of ar-
mor; the neccssity for strengthening of backup struc.
ture; interference with acccas doors and other items
oesentiai to the proper use of the helicopter; and the
establishment of realistic tokerances to allow armor
panel interchangeability in the field between helicop-
ters of the same typc. When parasitic armor is in-
stalled on the exterior of the helicopter, crashworthi-
nom is not affoctod particularly. However, if the ar-
mor panels are located in the interior of the helicop-
ter, dasign of the brucketry and attachments is dic-
tated by α crash-losd critaion. Convertibility to
14-18

penco-time operation is an attractive fcature of α
parasitic armor instaliation.
Indigenous armor refers to the bencfits, if any, that
may result from shielding of the critical component
by aircraft equipment or structure that normaliy is
locatod, or possibly may be relocated, between the
projoctile and the component which requires protec-
tion. The suggested technique is to take maximun ad-
vantage of the structure and equipment of the heli-
copter in providing ballistic protection for the item.
This involves accounting for the indigenous protec-
tion that is inherent to the original helicopter config-
vration, as well as relocating equipment to improve
the protoction. Considerstion is best given to ballis-
tic protection in the prcliminary configuration design
suage. Under θ: impact of α projectile, certain items
of equipment and structure will create frsgments and
splinters that, while they are not lethal individually,
will ferm α pattern covering α large area, thus greatly
increasing the prohability of & personsel hit. Other
items will arrest the projectile cnergy completely and
give, thereby, 100% ballistic protection. The fact that
the net effect of indigenous materials may be either
positive or negative indicates ine diificulty of devising
α method for employing indigenous armor. Consult
ERL concerning data rclative to the ballistic prop-
ertics of various structural materials. Refer to
Volume Il. Ref. Σ for the behavior of fuel cells as
masking.
14-3.3.1 Aircreg Torsu Arpor
Service experience with seat mounted torso armor
(chest protection) has been unsatisfactory and
rasuitai in the development of the individually worn
armored vest. Armored scats snd restraints shall be
designed to interface with thesc vests and usc them as
the forward protecticn. US Army Natick Develop-
ment Center. Natick, MA, is responsible for this
cquipment and details may be obtained from there.
14-3.3.2 Isterchangeabilicy
Armor of identical location shafl be interchange-
able between helicopters of the same model. If armor
for more than one level of protection is provided,
both should bc interchangeable (sce MIL-ι-8Sv0).
14-3.3.3 Removsb0ily
Except for the integral armor, cach componast of
the armor system should be capable of being removed
by α maximum of rvo men, uging tools normally
found in line maintenance areas.
Parasitic armor shouid be removable in order to
permit inspection, repeir, and maintenance and to