α particular establishod for steady load at α minirain
. ξ 5 cycles 101 without failure.
71-Α obj'!Y-ivz of the coupon is to establish teW.
verify the endurance linit of α material for
combinations alternating of steady and
would Because it be waconservative to extrapolate
equivalent alternating gtrcs from combined α
and alternating for reinforced plastics, stres α
of curves similar to those shown in Fig. 5-32
required to evaluate fatigue damage.
5-7.2.3 SbvcWW Members
Following the establishment of material endurance
limits from coupon test data, those parts that
primary and secondary oscillatory loads should
tested. Components such as the blade spar,
may one continuous be member or α built-up
should be tested thoroughly prior to their incorpora-
tion into the complete assembly. Testing of such
and subassemblies will provide test data valuable
further adjustment and refinement of the streas
grams obtained from coupon tests. Additionally,
tcting oC critical structural members such as the
reduces the cost of testinl full-size blades or
sactions. Τ he discussion follows that supplements
test requirements delineated in Chapter 7,
706-203.
In many blade configurations, α full-length
ber such the as spLa. lends itself to electromechanical
vibratory testing or other simple loading methods
volving minimum fixtures. The extreme fiber stress
due to flap bending often is experienced directly
the spar, while - because of α location close
neutral axis in the chordwise bending plane -
effect of loading in this plane may not be significant.
To obtain usable data. the part or subassembly
be instrumented and calibyated to known load
ditions prior to conducting the fatigue test.
Α minimum of three specimens of each signifimant
structural member should be tested to ascertain
fatigue strength ;ν the manufactured condition.
extrermely important that the processing of
"specimens be identical to that of the final production
unit.
The data gcaerated from part or subassembly
will compare wi0ι,, coupon data discussed previously,
The shape Σ-N of the curve for most metals is
in MIL-HDSK-Σ. Α rational method of curve
such as is described in Chapter 9, MIL-HDBK-5,
steaI be used when no reference curves are available,
The diata obtained by using an electromechanical
machine would be simple alternating strem (zero
steady strut). These data can be used to refine
Goodman diagrams in α manner similar to
5-56

' .
shown it Rcf. 45. Additional data from tsts of other
parts of ilih same material may be used to define
or further thI allowable fatigue envelope.
sevc-ral In many instances retention thde holes of the root
loads, blade fittiag receive special processing. Tert data to
an substantiate the endurance limit of the root retention
steady fitting can be obtained by testing the individual fit-
family tinS rather than the entire blade or root section. The
will be effect of bearingizing, (α special rolling treating of the
bearing surface of α hole) shot peening, or other such
treatment to improve the fatigue life should be
evaluated at this time. Component tests of specimens
selected as beyond normal tolerance also can be used
carry to provide data to assist ir. the establishment of limits
be of allowable defects and of overhaul and repair
whicn criteria. To the maximum extent possible, tect loads
section, simulate the condition(σ) experienced in flight shadl
test and be considered in the analysis. However,
parts where well-.!efined stress diagrams exist, α combina-
for tion of steady and alternating loads that may be con-
dia- verted to an equivalent alternating stress condition
should be selected.
spar Testing of the extreme section af member, whether
blade or not it includes α trailing edge strip or other rein-
she iorccmint at air icrminua oi the skin. ikucwalc wial wec
AMCP piovide valuable data for service life prediction.
Because this μ,.mber experiences the maximum fiber
mere- stress in the chordwise bending plane, tension-tension
fatigue loading will provide acceptable data. Due to
in- the relatively sharp contour presented by the trailing
edge, failure may be precipitated tt α relatively low
by stress level by α small nick or scratch. Although the
to the principal stress is due to bending, the critical stress
the may Wx simulated as'α tensile stress due to the emall
gradient. practicable, it !φ is advantageous for the test
must loads to duplicate the predicted stress combination in
con- the trailing edge.
Additional parts or subassemblies peculiar to α
specific design may warrant special endurance limit
thet testing Among such parts are the tip and/or inertia
It is weight attachment fittin3σ. These parts may be sub-
them jected to high-aniplitude, low-cycle fatigue resulting
from the start/stop centrifvgal force and the atten-
dant secondary mmnent and/or shear loads. The en-
tests durance limit for the fittings ann attachments may be
confirmed by duplicating the load coaidions cxperi-
shown enced in service. Other components and/or subas-
fitting semblies should be tested whenever the construction
of the blade does not permit accurate or reliable
analysis.
test
5-7.2.4 Determlaane" of Fatigue Life
the Endurance limit testing provide the fatigue shall
that data ib necessary permit the deteinirnation of α ser-