12 NODE
ю
1e MOOE
12
1
S MODE CEAP FOOTN SEDANG FREQUE NCY
AOCE
0 юко
ORIVE SYSTENS. ED A > RORMAL OPERAT-RG SPEEO 9
Flese 4-34. Raddal Medo Reoentnce Freqpsecy :s
Gear Toutin Mieubilng Spesd
The illustratod situation trus demands the intro-
duccion of sufficicnt damping to teduce the vibrntion
significantly. Tbe spiral dumper ring or snap ring as
ahowa in Fig. 4-35 has proves to be effoctive in many
insta.sces, producing damping ratios of 0.04 to 9.10
with a resultant reduction of cyclic resonant strcas to
30 40% of tic undamped magnitudes.
Althorg intcaded as noisc reduction devices.
otber ty. a of damping (viscoclastic) asd torxional
abeorbers hare bpen evaluated with partial succoes in
haicopter transmisions. Certain viecoclastic dam-
ping treatnents have boen shown to roóuce some gear
p) q
4-34.1 Δ
Meny cockpit indicators, warning liginis, and gages
fit the generel definition of diagsoncic aide. Recent
Aray RFP specifications include indications for oil
prcaure aad tamperature, low pressure warning. high
-ap dgs pe 'Ainaenb po Jumea amçuseuo
ction. Auiditional ground inaputon Inckaiquez
uje sdiq-pp-ro pdeg p! Apmos
flege, oil leakage checks, viaual and aurs: failurc de-
toctica and location, and oil sams, ting for spectro-
graphic analyss. However. thcee n athods by them-
sehes have provcn inadcyeane to allow thc wide-
spread ue ef safe and cuet-effective conditional
4-70

SPIRAL BEVEL GEAR
HELICAL GEAR
SPUR GEAR
Figure 4-35. Typical Σ
maintenance on existing Army belicopier drive sub-
systems. To » large cxient, thc missing ingredient is
thorough and coraprehensive consideration of tbese
techniqucs in the initial dcsign and devclopment test
"sserd
Safe and cos-cffective impiamentation of con-
ditional maintenance methods requires thorough
definition and accurate use of eariy failur detection.
diagnosis, and prognosis as defined in Ref. 106.
Major efforts underway in Army-sponsored pro-
grams are aimod as reducing the tintc roquirod fur de-
Bection aad at improving scheduling. This philosophy
recules in scieduliag of unscheduied maintenance
provided tiat experiance-based judgments arc avail-
aibie concernine ikc severity and reic of progrossion
of sbe detactad failure.