AMCP 706-202
considering ble, orifices and jet and internal toler-
ances, so that capacity requirements can be reduced.
Subsystem 3-8.3.3 APU Lubrication
self- is subsystem generally lubrication The
oil an external unless APU, within the contained
completely α toward is trend required. The is cooler
mairne- * sealed oil system requiring no scheduled
nance. Filters are included internally and, with
current uiits, are serviced at specified intervals. With
(if used), air of buffer filtering and seals adequate
external contamination virtually can be eliminated,
should valves, bypass with filters, larger Slightly
over.hauls. Oil between for change the need eliminate
so that enough are low generally rates consumption
long periods. for eliminated may be level.checks oil
APU of maintenance field subsystems, fuel As with
it than introduces more problems systems lubrication
pumps, lubrication for factors Reliability solves.
systems are supply or mist and jet valves, relief filters,
high.
the in def--ied are requirements Altitude operating
temperature Maximum model specification. APU
specifica- APU model in the specified limits also are
tion.
Qualification testing of the lubrication system is
in accordance APU qualification with concurrent
with MIL-Π-8686.
Drive APU Reduction 3-83.4
established is design APU-reduction-drive The
accessories equipment and driven by the primarily
to designed is usually air APU bleed The recuired.
shaft output total its of percentage α small deliver
con- fuel for provided be will pads Drive horsepower.
driven all and needed), (if control generators trols,
hydraul- and generators as electrical accessories such
"ic pumps. ic pumps.
"The turbine nozzle and diffuser matching within
the APU can be changed to trade off shaft power
capability for bleed performance within the limits of
stall. For: the shaft horsepower APU, output may be
APU If pads. larger two at one or concerntrated
combining an aircraft into directly applied is power
gearbox, fewer APU pads will be needed. In this case,
required helicopter accessory outputs can be ob-
tained from the auxiliary gearbox.
'tilg APU Sts 3-8.3.5
The APU starting subsystem be fully auto- shall
matic, using the sequencing systems previously
the exceed must level energy starter The described.
APU drag (resistive) torque by sufficient margin to
provide the required acceleration. The starting torque
requirements will be described in the APU model
specification.
3-20

(.
Electrical starting is satisfactory if starter and
battery energy levels are chosen properly. The
the smallest subsystem requires minimum-weight
torque, breakaway adequate with consistent battery
This drop. voltage of initial consideration including
(15 speed rated to time starting α longir in result will
to provide some to 20 sec), but battery is adequate
torque to very high speeds (80-90%). The basic limi-
tation is that cold-day starting (-65°F) is not practi-
H be It will batteries. oversized and warm without cable
found that when APU size increases above 300 hp,
start the slower Also, excessive. size becomes battery
accelera- the fuel to more sensitive the APU makes
at both atarts successful schedule. Achieving tion
may adjustments without +130°F and -65*F
mechanism. compensation α require
satisfac- is starting of APU method hydraulic The
Hy- is required. starting -650F especa~iy when tory,
initial high for be sized should motors starter draulic
to will tend This acceleration. rapid to give torque
requirement, volume accumulator α lower in result
variations. fuel schedule to sensitivity to reduce and
cranting initial an will have typical subsystem Α
APU resistive highest than the of 50% more torque
torque. Ideally, the motor should incorporate an
onto \: drag is induced clutch so that no 'verrunning
the APU when accumulator fluid is expended.
at the APU may self-sustein -65°F starting, During
α from drag of foot-pounds few Α speed. 40-50%
volume additional accumulator necessitate can motor
speed. 60% or to 55 continues starting torque that so
be can starting hydraulic discussed, previously As
by or power for control α battery by using arranged
control and ignition an APU-driven of incorporation
generator. magnet) (permanent
RELIABILITY 3-8Α4 "
Rlait haraciLiTe R
Reliability characteristics are specified in the Α'PU
model specification. For helicopters using thc U
for inflight emergency power, starting reliability is o ι
for APU requirements Typical major importance.
3-2. in Table shown are rates failure starting
TABLE 3-2
APU RELIABILITY
_ _
NUMBER OF STARTS ALLOWABLE FAI LURES
0 0-500
501-775 1-
776-1050 24
1051-1390 3-