1)Π70-0
are at often than those θ. oil inlet. However, higher
because these two errors are opposite ip offcct,
ficient cancellation occurs to rendcic the equatio~is
acoeptable for estimation purposes.
Ref. defines the critical 73 temperature Τ,
respect to scoring 5Ω)OF as α risk, rating - Τ,
as and risk. α medium risk, tempera- 300*F lesser
tures the as value of the con- low risks. Theiefore,
temperature under design + AT Τ, junction
be condi tions should less than the, value of
assc with an acceptable level of risk, vaed
There is no accepted or inherently accurate method
for calculating although measurements of typical Τ'σ,
0 helicopter pinions have shown values lO greater 0F
is than oil inlet temperatures. Although it well known
(Refs. 74 and that above 75) α certain critical speed
the scoring load of α given gear set will increase,
equation does not reflect this consideration AGMA
speed since no term other than sliding velocity
used in the deve~opment of Eqs. 4-44 and 4-45.
An improved calculation ma~hod uses speed-
dependent friction coefficients (Ref. combined 76)
the with effects of tooth load sharing. The method
dlga, ε uic foa,,...,sou ::..,.
 Subdivide the active . tooth profile into at least 1
20 equally spaced points,
-'
2. Calculater andr at each point.
Calculate 3. 4at cthpoint,
4. Calculate φ at each point method by shown
Ref. or using suitablt; empirical 76 data.
5. Replace in 4-44 Eq. with Z,-, α modified 2.,
sv'ring geometry factor.
 /
~
- ...
kq"-') les ZjC α, V\.0/
Calculate α value of adjusted to account 6. Ω,'
load sharing at multiple tooth contact points,
effects of profile modifications. cluding
Calculate and conjunction temperature 7. AT
at each point, AT +
Proper load sharing distribution in the two-tooth
contact zone must provided be for involute profile by
modifications. There are many techniquts in use
calculation of these modifications, most of them
based upon the practices recommended Ref. by
Even though the calculated values are slightly low
thin-rim helicopter gearing, the tooth defiections
tained the methods of Ref. should used by 78 be
profile modification technique. The first point
.'the
*\ contact (pinion dedcrndumn with gear tip) is the most
critical with respect to overload effects of tooth the
produces the higher absolute errors, and \spacinS

values of the friction coefficient (Fig~σ. 4-6 and 4-7)
suf- Therefore, to achievc the best proffic modification for
scoring risk roduction, the prccedinig caltulations
should slightly biased to increase the be Miaterial
with removal at first of contact while decreasing the ploint
the last point of contact. 20-30% bias Α high removal α,.
shift is generally satisfactory. practic~able reduc- If
lions in risk are to obtained throught in- be scorinig
load volute modification, profile tolerances must be slope
bttween and 0.0002 in. for the held 0.0001 :κ 1 Τ,
modified zones and tooth-to-tooth spacing ac-
curacies of in. must 0.0002-0.0003 achieved. bu Ade- ρ
quacy of the ctlculated design values must con- be
firm-Α dtiritig initial gearbox bench testing. Prop~ρ
profilk, modifications for helicopter applicotions must
reveal full visuni profile contact throughout the rfaige
the 50-75% of the red-line power; if less than full contact
is achicved, the rtsultant loss contact ratio at nor- of
was cruise power may cause excewskvely rough and -mal
noisy cptration with an attendant reduction in π~it-
ting life When the level of sophistication desccibed is
used in the calculation. of together with + AT, Τ).
Τ. for precision in manufa~cture. the risk evaluations of
0 of 5ω~~' Feflfit α* value* TI * Λ'Μ
high but 400*F as 7, α medium risk thus risk, =
would α suitable classificakion be for carburized AMS
gears 6265 operating in or lAIL-Λ-7808 MIL-Λ-23699
lubricantls.
in The preceding analyses do not adequately accourst
for certain factors that are. known to influence the
calculated temperature rise awtd AT the truc for 7:.
synthetic lubricants. Among thesc factors are:
0! ef- additive wedr and friction in diffcreaccs The 1.
ficiency between and MIL-Λ.-7808 MII..-Λ-23699 oiia
*ι π.,*~ ι -~~~- - texture
The influence 3. o! behavior as EHI) α function os'
te erteanvloiy for
in- When tests are conducted under closely controlled
φ, wherein the friction coefficient the in- conditions
itial temperature and the parameters are EHD Τ, Τ,,
known with accuracy, it has been reported that the
is invalid. assumption that is constant actually Τ,.
Ref. 20 shows α semi-log correlation between and Τ,.
for α dimensionless parameter which depends El-Δ tp
upon the initial viscosity the sliding and total π,
velocities 77. and respectively; pitch radius and V , R; V, 7
for compressive (hertz) stress at failure In this Sc,. cor-
ob- relation the value of for well heat treated, low Τ,
for retained austenite, case carburized AMS 6265
of operating in MIL-Λ-7808 drops from &.bout to 600'F
about 430*F when the value of increases α factor by τ
of (from to 10- &~.Values of are 101 ι Τ, - -
(with lower quality less for F deg 100 approximately