*
MIL-H-8SO4 providies workainne guicialiams Sor or-
tatolishing queaizticas
spocificaticem. bomenee, does
duce tles dymanaic stabilicty levels titar rem ukt ia thoe tetd
handing qualicins, nor dowe is inmure missioa suc-
ceas.
Considaratiotn purtinaat to izapr ving babcop-%
mivcion elluctive.α, ao γ wstà mcibuds of saaly-
sie, are roviervedl ins thu parag- aple that folloe.
4-2.1. Condve. Poener sod Dar-ping
Par. 6-ι.1, AMCf Aa-20τ. π mons chart isus-
aratuag Cuatros pure anc daepang raarene is for
operanoas uoes sra insrucesat fkgat rule (8τ-3)
and visual figat ruies (VFR). Durng proil itacy
oud fq paaao xeegdeon uor myeds ukp
viiasg vaiues wiiara cae bouncarics sdown cn thos:
chasis. It is convenicnt to estunate the anfautated
Sacaperg due to staniliy augmcatatict. sysaras and
to pot theoe canmane oa the charts.
The mminum aaguar dasp aepienl respxuse for
catrol inpute specifed in MIL-H- 850F for VFR or IF-R cungaioas as appl -2De. Thus
augmentauon loop gs 1, inciusing ary pslot roquurzaeat places α ragit upon the suixina am
maucurer.ng conspensaton, becaus : high gain re-
duces angula: rate, and. thereiore angia: die
plaomeni α α gives. tir.se Thesc caneria ant. con-
strucies α conarol sensiovity and damping :ur ses fo:
the puct. oll. anu yaw contro? axes in par. 6-3.1,
AMs Π 20o-20:. Althgh: ga-ν satung by thase
critera is not sufficent, anc regaies ose: ana.ysa.
this method docs se. ve as α fir st estir:#se for rate xn-
8odds 2 = 9ε 28 jo 2 1 Suae co! 10ν
for atzude contros loop wh.χ. ma β. cralua:zd
for theas speicatior cor.pliuncs sy mung uansient
analysus
Verticai control sensitivity Zt aac verucui ammp-
ing Z. lixevise ure raied in par. 2.5.3. AMCF 700
sióχ.auou liniea. the: are alerer. dg aigt:azmuon
controis. Usc of verticas aug nen.saioa is prc-onbly
due to the prescr. trenc to inconoreie hove -noid
systems whien ag.. control loops thal reg uns ver-
tical velochy and posi. ν. In hover. the thruss kve
commands er.ical velo.sty wna α first-orits .ume
equa: to the reciprocal of the verticai dar.ping Lais
lag for α ca.gu helicopuer it abou: § se: (ζ-0.2
sec: '). Thi ε lor.υ esc.gt. fo. pi.oa op.lion anc
workioac to be innuenod nusrneay α 50τ st
greaer reduction α ump. corastan.
For cerlan hencaper iypes in. tili-rolar
hicles). une ratur ia aof as. effective saurce cf roliss.σ
Rumen: throughorst the flag: cn vcioge. Tierelor. I

"*
is aocaetary do crauptay ailsmons, or some otber rodi
with the contrud devicu, in cruieing llighe, wribare the rosor
pro sent axis onsestialty is paradics so cihs ftigin patia. In
pracice -— sivce thie rypr. os halicapse aoceloratas
from bover to cruies — the roior slovvrty is plseod out
as Α roll-contzol sotarce, with tAe roll-comtrol fusctios
of tie ailerons progreanively incroasing with airqpund
and/or vohice configuretios variatiou. Α simaidor
situcatson exists with repect to the pitch, yuw, and
adtitude cont:ols. Fig. é-ι is an illustration of typicad
control fuzaction scheduling for tbe roll axis.
Joj mps opuogtnts Angenb Segy aptos on
rondelicopter roiorcran. Therufore, tue procurisg
de edn ss rs en
pbication of MIL-H-8501 and Μ1Λ-F-8735 α & fuxc-
tios of sirspeed or lond distribution among tibe lift
producas.
6-2.1.2 Characteriotic Reets
Any mode of responee detoctabie and/or direcily
controllable by the pilot snall exhibit α Icvel of dy-
aamic stabilety st leaxt eqmal to that upocified in MIL.-
H-Ssol. This spocification primarily addreacs the
longnudinai an.σ for VFR, but it should be con-
sidans α munimun requirenent for any axis.
Thure abo are requiranents for statilizing suct
respons modes us are not under the diroct control of
the pifot, or are controlied by him oaly indirecaly
scch as by char-ging flight conditiozs or sysiem set-
tinge. Examples iaclude mnodes influenced by stability
augment ation contro! loop coupling. potential acro-
mechanie! resonance, and exiernal sling losd dy-
namic: Thesc modes should meet the MIL-H-8501
cr.ueria for applicable VFR or IFR conditions, except
tha: * 2en MIL-H 8501 allows divergence cr docs
nos specify α criterion, some minimum sccuptable
damping snould be dasignated (ε.γ.. 0.03 damping
ratio, which is the minimum for flutter in MlL-Α-
E870).
10TAL AVAILABLE
ROLLING MOMENT ROTOR AILERON CGNTRIBUTION
CONTRIEUTION
AIRAPEEO V.kI Apre Gl. Tyrteel Ceutrst Fectian SchuSuiag for
: TM-coter Afraan
3