8-3.2 TERMINAL MANEUVERING
EQUIPMENT
In addition to the basic flight instruments, α
helicopter may have VOR, ILS, marker beacon, and,
preferably, α radar altimeter.
The helicopter VOR Antenna Array is mounted
for horizontai polarization in an area that provides
maximum performance and minimum rotor modu-
lation. The basic ground signal is both frequency-
and amplitude-modulated at 30 Hz, and the aircraft
VOR receiver mcusures the phasc difference between
these two signals in order to obtain the angular dis-
placement to the station; accuracy of the VOR is
about ±2 deg. Becausc the main rotor blade often ro-.
tates at an angular ratc that is some subharmoniz.of
3Q Hz, helicopter manufacturers have experienced α
great deal of difficulty with rotor modulation of the
VOR. Usually ihe rotor modulation can be seen in
the escilation of the course nced!ε. In extreme coses,
the coursc information will become unusable. :
There are some experimental techniques available
by which this rotor modulation can bc climinated.
Essentially. inese gepend upon aetecting the rotor
amplitudo-mnodulation on the subcarrier, inverting it,
and summing it.with the modulation on the VOR
recciver variabhe·phase channel - in effect, can-
celling it out. While this principle bas been demon-
strated, it also has been found.to introduce an ad-
ditional error into the system. The small variation in
whecl-tooth symmetry in the spinning tone wheel
typically used to generage the subcarriers in VOR
systems results in an amplitud: modulatior: of the
subcarrier. When the modulation of the subcarrier is
summed with the variable phase signal, the rotor
compoaent is cancelled but these asymmetries im-
pose α new AM component on the tone. Thus, the
ment (Ref. 3).
An instrument landing system: (ILS) is used to
guide the aircraft to the ground. The ILS is composed
of α localizer, which operates between 108 and 112
MHz and uses the same antenna as the VOR, and α
glidescope, which operatcs between 379 and 335
MHz. When α localizer frequency is diaied, the glide-
scope is channeled automatically to the proper fre-
quency. Both the localizer and the glidescope use 90
and 150 Hz to provide right-ieft or up-down signals.
Again, rotor modulation has been α major problem
in both these devices.
An additional radio for usc with the VOR and ILS
is the marker beacon recciver. The receiver opcrates
ACAANS. path. at 75 MHz and is used to locate points along the ILS

AMCP 706-202
8-3.3 EN ROUTE NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
Navigational equipment used in en route flying
may include ADF. DME, TACAN, LORAN, com-
pass, Doppler radar, and inertial navigation sysiems.
The miosion requirements dictate the daree of
sophistication reguired.
8-3.3.1 Automatic Direction Flader (ADF)
This is α refinement of thc old radio direction
finder, and employs both σ sense antenna and α lpop
antenna on board the aircraft. The signals from tbesc
two antennas are added vectorially and α cardioid
pattern results. By means of circuitry within the
Fadio, the system aiways socks the null of the cardioid
and, by means of proper calibration snd instru-
mentation, α pointer shows the relative bearing to the
station to which the radio is tuned.
· The equipment designer must be certain that the
receiver antennas are selective, so that extrancous
signals will not affect the operation of the unit. At-
tempts have been made to install videband ampli-
fiers in the loop and sense antenna circuits in order to
try to improve the efficiency of α short antenna or α
long cable ryn from antenna to radio; however, such
attempts usually have resuited in additional design
problems.
: The sense antenna shouid be as far from the main
rotor as possible in order τò prevent interference from
triboclectric noise, and should be close to the elec-
trical CG of the helicopter for good reversal
charactéristics. The location of the sense antenna de-
termines the reversal characteristics of the system.
Empirically. it has becn shöwn that if the sense anten-
na is located forward on the aircraft belly, an carly
reversal (and. possibly, multiples) will occur; if it is
mounted an on the belly, α late or post-reversal will
result. If it is mounted forward on the top, α lates
reversal wili occur; and if mounted aft on the top, an
carly reversal will result.
The loop antenna shouid be mounted so that it is
symmetrical in the longitudinal axis fo: symmetry in
calibration. Because the ioop is affected by large
masses, consideration should be given to the location
of deployable or disposable stores when placing the
loop.
The ADF never is to be considered as precision
equipment. It is versatile, and its angular error varies
inve:seiy witn distance and incrcases with at-
mospheric noise level. It is vulnerable to counter-
meastres.
&-3.3.2 Distance-measuring Equipment (DME)
Distance-mcasuring equipment has been in use for
some years and is very accurate. It consists of an air-
borne transponder that sends out α signal that
8-5