conservative value fow this steady stress (at α con-
stant speed) may be taken as
 2 -. 9 10-π(nD) psi (4-42) ,
where
7.095 dimensional 10-6 - constant Ξ
3 material = density, lb/in. π
"ν Σ gear speed, rpm
Δ3, gear root diameter, in. -
The oscillatory stress due to bending Σ, may be com-
' . bined with the hoop stress Σ, by use of α modified
"7 Goodman diagram constructed on the basis of the
material properties of the specific gear. The modified
Goodman diagram can be used to account for the re-
duced allowable bending limit for an idler gear ap-
plication in which the calculated stress is fully re-
versing. Use of the diagram is discussed in detail in
Reft 54.
Α maximum safe working value of tooth stress
due Σ,.. to bending can be determined as
~,+K, ,
(4-43) Σ
allowable endurance limit stress, psi -
lf acodmesols K,
temperature factor, dimensionless - K,
reliability factor, dimcnsionless - Kr
unity for all is assumed as The life factor K,
Sapplications designed for infinite life, ι.χ., greater
than cycles. 101 All Army helicopter power gearing
The temperature must meet this criterion. designs
the gear blank is taken as unity provided factor K,
draw temperature is blow the hardress operating
caett - hi..σ . .' ...-. , . ... 6-ρ;.,io..
helicopter power satisfied by all Army must be
gearing designs. The ieliability factor K, effectively is
con- α factor of safety that is used when the statistical
unknown data scatter) are and reliability (test fidence
limit stress, value of the eriduranco for α given mean
for of 3.0 is recommended casts, α value In such K,
for is known limit endurance allowabl the When Σ,,
level, 1.0 reliability the specified - K,
always should be chosen to rmect the desired Σ.,
reliability for the design application. Α genS'rlly
recognized safe design practice for helicopter geaing
as is to select the value 3 standard daviatior4 (3o) Σ.
below the mean endurance limit demonstrated by
* teat. The value of the standard deviation as well α, as
greatly with limit, varies mean endurance the
manufacturing practices,! treatment heat material,
variability, and the quality control level exercised in
non- and inspection acceptance component final
' destructive test and evaluation methods. Endurance
"4-40

limit data and an applicable value for may be oh- u,
tained from an R. R. Moore rotating beam specimen
. ω every to dnplicate be taken care must test. Extreme
metallurgical and manufacturing characteristic of α
gear itself or the data are useless. However, the value
of ε from these tests invariably will be smaller than
that for the more complex production gear.
Refs. 66, 67, and 68 present the results of indepen-
jdent test programs conducted to determine an ac-
curate mean endurance limit for carburized AMS -
6265 gears. The resultant Σ., values vary from
160,000 to 210,000 psi. Relative strength data for
many materials and process as treated in single
tooth (pulsor) machiqes over α 15-yr period may be
found in Ref. 69. The variability of and α with Σ,,
material and process is shown in Fig. 4-22, extracted
from Ref. 41. None of the test gears were shot peened
since this proess could ;..ve masked the inherent
differences in the materials and processes.
The endurance limit is, of course, merely one of
several factors that must be assessed by the designer
the from Aside selection. material gear his making in
obvious criteria of fainiliarity, confidence level in
hmanulacturing and process coatrol, cost, tempera- ρ
ture environment, and size, the crack propagation
characteristics must be satisfactory. Although the
safe design stress for one candidate material may be
be must also it of another, that than higher far
or secondary damage that ballistic damage assumed
will occur in any critical gear mesh of an Army hell-
copter. Such damage could result in an impact-type
high- could cause α through.-hardened, overload that
fail instan_!υ material to shatter and tensile-strength
provided by α core structure The degree of ductility
of lower hardness (commonly core hardness 20 points
often sufficient to than the case) is Rockwell C lowe-
with α relatively low rate provide α safe failure mode
be of crack propagation. When this technique cannot
hardness gradients the use of lower employed,
may suffice. geometric crack stoppers together with
mechanics primer on the fracture α useful Ref. 70 is
designer. the gear for
the peening in controlled shot use of properly The
gear fillkt area often can reduce scatter (smaller α)
and in some instances can increase the design
allowable Σ., by to 25% 13 in carburized AMS 6265
gears. Practices vary widely with regard to peening of
gear tooth faces. Some specifications require masking
the faces during peening, others require removal of
or honing. grinding by flank of peening the effects
sur- the running of peening allow others and still
faces. Peening requirements are tailored to the gear
be stated: may generalities application, but certain
I. Peen in accordance with MIL-Σ-13165.