MAXMMUM
2 deg CALE PULL OW
(A) MAXINUM MISALIGNMENT SETWEEN CABLE ANO PLANE OF PULLEY
QUARD PIN AT CABLE SINGLE GUARO PIN 2 QUARD PINS
TANGENCY POIN1 3
(8) TANGENCY POINTS (C) GUARD PINS FON SMALL CABLE WRAP ANGLES
NNI ONE INTEAMEDI ATE
PULLEY CLEAMANCE
)
STRUCTURE "
TANGENCY POINT
(D) CAILE GLANDS OFFSET (E)
FROM ANGENCY POINT WRAP ANGLES
Flgure 16-10. Cable Aligament and
Pulley Guard Location
during routine maintenance; their omision could
csuse the pulley to be misalignod, or induce un-
desirable strosscs on the bracket which would reaukt
in premature failure.
Eccentric losding of flat shocta, tension in welds,
and the bending of mounting flanges should be
avoided. Moroover, adoquate back-up structure
shoukd be usod to provide a rigid support of the
bracket basc. For long cable life, pulleys in the same cable run
should not be installed cioeer together than the maxi-
mum cable travel. In this way, no portion of the cablc
wili pass ovar more than one puliey. In any casc, the
pulley should be arranged and locatod so that no por-
tion of the cable is made to reverse diroction in bend-
ing whon paseing over two or more pulleys.
16-7Α PULLEY GUARDS
Guards or guard pins should be installed at the ap-
proximate point of tangency of the cable to the

ANICP 706-202
pulleys (Fig. 16-10(B) ). For very small wrap angia,
whero the use of two guard pins is impractical, ope
pin may be usod (Fig. 16-10(C) ). When two or more
pins are usod, they t.ay be offsct from the point of
tangency in order to obtain the space nocmsary for
their instaliation (Fig. 16-10(D) ). Whore the wrap
angle is more than 90 deg. intermodiare guard pine
should be installed (Fig. 16-10(E) ). To avoid poasible binding due to relative de
floctions, tho support for guard pine should come
from the same bracket that supports the pulley. The
n pye d n pn pd n pq des
small as possible, yet sufficiont to allow for the
tolerance variations, including wobble and eccentri-
citics. The gap should not be so large ae to permit the
cable to becomo wodgod botwoen the pulloy flange
and the guard. The recommended maximum gap is
ono-half the cable diameter.
Spring guards should not be used in primary fight
control systoms. If used in socondary control systems,
some method of retention in addition to their own
spring effect should be considerod. If used, sprin;
pins should be installod in accordance with MS
33547.
16-8 PUSH-PULL CONTROLS AND
FLEXIBLE SHAFTS
16-8.1 GENERAL
Although push-pulßl controls and Jexibie shafts are
similar in appearance, tbay differ considerably in
construction and application. Basically, both devicas
consist of a flexible core that opuates inside a casinig.
The casing supports and acts as a bearing surface for
the core. The puab-pull coatrol is usod to transmit
lincar motion by tension or compression of the core.
The flexible shaft is coed to transmit power or roiary
motion, usually along & curved path, betwoen two
components. These two devices are oesignod
spocifically to perform their individual functions, and
they should not be interchanged.
16-8.2 PUSH-PULL CONTROLS
The basic components of the push-pull control are
the inner core (usually flexible). the outer tubuiar
casing or conduit (rigid or fiexible). and the end fit-
tings, as roquired.
The requirements for this type of control are
definod in MIL-C-7958. Push-pull controks are
dasignated by grados. Grade A controls are made of
spocially sclected components that are individually
testod in order to insure that backlash and oporating
forces are roducod to the minimum value. Grade B
16-27