11-3.1 FTTTINGS
Fittings provide the structura! transition between
two differeat types of structure, and alco serve as α
conveniont point for disassembly. They may be
desigred as woidnd, cast, machinod, or forged sub-
structures. Appropriate safety factsrs must be usod
wben calculating fitting strength. For exanple,
castings roquire aualytical safety factors ranging from
1.33 to 2.0, depeesding upon the quality control stan-
dards to be applied. Safety factors are governed by
the casting classificutions in MIL-C-6021. The deci-
sion as so type oî fitting depends upon weight,
production quantity (or cost), and the neture of the
loads to be transmittod. Castings generally have low
dongation characteristicz, and, therefore, have poor
fatigue charactorisics.
Maticulous care shoußδ be given to koepirg the
local eccontricities in the fittings to α minimum. All
chanpes in cross section should be made as gradual as
possible by using generous fillet radii. Abrupt
changas in croes soction cause strcss concentrations,
and, thorefore, must be avoidod.
Lug analysis roquires spoaal consideration. Refs. 3
and contain aiscussions of this subject.
ι qioq ns 'ssu; ju éju. σ jo qi
and bolts, for α sirgle fitting attachment shouid be
avoided. Rivete fili the holes ano, therefore, pick up
loed before bolts do. It is important to preioad bolts
so that ciamping of the facing surfaces is ac-
complisbod and bending of the components is mini-
pazia
11-3.2 SUPPOKTS
Sbelves, bcams, and brackets that support equip-
ment and subeystem parts generally are constructed
by assembly of ahect-metal components. The support
must be surong enough to take the dcsign ioad -- ihc
weight of the itam supporel times the design load
factor — plus the applicabie mechanical reaction
forcas and the vibratory loads. The loads being dis-
tributed into the primary structure from the support
should not induce secondary strasses, which can
cause the primary structure to fail. Secondary loads
are caused by the dsflection of the support.
Beams having an opes section shculd bc in-
vestigated for shear center location. When α beam is
loadod off its shoar center, twisting will occur, as in-
dicated in Fig. 11-2(Α). Secondary loading and lower
subeystem natural frequency generally result.
Brackets should be designod so that the load feed-
in or foed-out is parallel to α shect-metal face. If the
load is perpendicular, local bending will occur and
subsecuent cracking will result. Radii should not be
counted upon to carry load. Softneas in the support

AMCP 70Σ-202
will be evidenì, and, again, cracking will occur afer α
period of service. Figs. 11-2(Β) and (C) show correct
and incorrect design concepis fer bracket aitach-
ments.
11-3.3 FRAMES
Frames are used to roduce skin panel size and
stringer column Iength, to maintain aircraft contou",
to transfer various locai loads to the outer skin as
shear loads. Fig. 11-3 shows an example of = frame
reacting shear flow from α tank liner. The weight of
the tank and the fuel result in α bending load on the
liner, and the resultant shear flow in the liner is op-
posite in direction to ihat shown acting on the frame.
The frame flangei that support the skin must be
sufficiently thick to provent tension field wrinklcs
from propagating when the panels are not shear-
resistant. The moments of inertia of the cross soctions
of the frames must be adequate to restrain the
siringers against column failure. Junctions betwecn
frames, skin, and stringers must be clipped.
INCORRECT CORRECT
Τ.V
KSHEAR
CENTER
(Α)
(Β)
CRACKS
(C)
Figere 11-2. Currect and lacorrect Load Distribution
11-5