AMCP 70F-202
Σ~& CYCLIC
PITCH ./-
HUBA ROTOR
Figure 5-8.
articulated of an those to similar characteristics
with α flap hinge located at 20% of the blade
Precone of the blades, typical of the gimbaled
hingeless designs, permits cancellation of the
lift moment by the moment due to the centrifugal
force of the rotating blade acting through the
cal disolacemcnt of the blade above the disk
Kinematic coupling in α hingeless rotor is influenced
by the location of the feathering axis with respect
the precone angle and to the equivalent flapping
hinge location.
5.3.5.1 XH-51 Rotor System
Α schematic of the Xh-51 hingelcss rotor,
has cantileverd blades with only α feathering
of freedom, is shown in Fig. 5-9. Α mechanical stabi-
lizing gyro is connected by one set of links to
blade pitch arma and to the rotating swashplate
another set.. Blade cyclik pitch is controlled by
control gyro, which, in turn,, is controlled by
swr.shplate input. The blades of this rotor have
chordwise stiffness, but arn provided with flap
bility by α flat spring section inboard of the
ering axis. The blades are swept ferward about I
ahead of the featherin, axis to locate tme CG of
Σ5-' 2

'
Σ~PRECONE/
Hingeless Rotor Schematic
inertia the Thus, axis. feathering of the ahead blade rotor
radius. forces acting theough the CG produce moments
and about the feathering axis, producing, in turn, feed-
steady back forces at the gyro. Analysis has shown that this
displacement of the CG forward of the feathering
verti- axis permits the gyro effectively and simply to pro-
niane. vide stabilizina pitch innuts to the rotor.
In this system, upward flapping of the blade puts
to an up force on the pitch link, causing the control gyro
te precess. ThL. tilting of the gyro then puts cyclic
pitch back into the blade at the proper phase to mini-
mize blade flapping motion. The control gyro also
provides the blade pitch angle changes necessary for
which stability of the helicopter. The AH-56Α rotor also is
degree of this type, but us= α door-hinge arrangement of thu
pitch change (feathering) bearings in order to obtain
the the desired high chordwise stiffness of the hub
by without excessive drag.
the
the 5-3.5.2 OH4Α Rotor
high The OH-6Α rotor syst:μ, shown in Fig. 5-10, is
flexi- another type of hingelcas rotor. Multiple straps
feath- transmit the centrifugal force from one blade across
deg the hub to the opposite blade, and are flexible enough
the to allow both flapping and feathering of the blade.