5-9.7.3 Biode Sersctaral Amnlyeie
When blade sections, stiffness, and mass distribu-
tion kave been sciogted and the externalily distri u-
trd icads caiculated, the next task is to establish the
sructural integrity of the blade. The internai strain
(strcus) abtribution among the clements of the blade
is co mputed: the resultant stress levels are comnpared
with allowable icvels that test and/or expericnce have
showa will preclude failure during the life of the sys-
tani.
There ar two gencrai cesegorics of design loading
conditions coasidered in birde design: ultimate con-
ditions and Irtigue cosditions. The blade mut have
an ultimatc sirength :0% greater ti:an the bighest
peak losd ansicipeted during the lifetime of ahe
sysien. The Biade slao must bave fatigue xrength
sialfcient tc prevent α failure ds lu alternating loads.
Sxpericnce has shown thst fatigue usuaily is the more
critical design condition.
In fatigue analysis, α spectrum of ratigue loads and
thei: expectea nuaube of occurrences ir: tix lifeime
of τìε tezdkoy:ρ is devalopod. This in daved from α
miss snalys tgy for all msneuver, tu:-
bularz, cimbs. δ'yants, xi loa, sod ground-air-
groun1 cycles (ae: CBapter 4. Ah!Cr 70o-20: and
ChapA06-203).
The fusg.: stiezgth of the conponent generally is
1 :. γ
date. The magnituds and shape of the curve are α
function of material. stres concaatrg-ions, environ-
mental conditions, and magnitude of conuuitrent
steady nfress.
The influence of steady stress on fotizus strengtn
may te considereble and must be considered in
fatigue analysis. In tail rotor bla des, the ztesdy si::-σ
generally is equal to the altern.ting strec, α:σ
reduces the allowsble alternating stress oy apFroxi-
mately 20%, depending on the materia:.
As with main rotors, tail -otor blade ácsign ι- ρ.u:
iterative process of developing α blade with adequ,'ε
acrodynamic, physical, and dynamic characteristics,
and fatigue integrity. If. at any stage in the design
proceas. an inadequacy is dercted. the design pro-
cess begins once again until ali required character-
istics are achieved.
5-9.7.4 Asrociacticity
Problems due io acroclasticity have becn en.
cou.ntered in the instellation of tail rotors. These
problems have resulted in undesirabie flying qualities
at high specds. An example of such α problem.
termed iail wagging". was encountertd on an ex-
perimental helicopter. Tbe rotor was mounted on α
Fin that projectod at ove the sail boomn. Α natural fre-

:
queacy of the Loons in torsion was couplud to tibs
change in rotor tkruct due to lsteral vslocity (iwatlow)
so that nogative dumping was cucoaniorod. Thas
change in rail rotor thrus due to the motion is pro-
portional to luteral fiapping β, and to the picts-fiap
-ν gs σ yn γ punog eas 3τ ig um Jugdaon
tive 8, was the best way to damp the sysigue. This type
of problem can be avoided oniy througb caseful con-
sideration of the dysemic characteristice of all com-
ponents of the belicopter.
5-9.7.5 Fluzter and Dhrergance
Tail rotors are not scaled-down main roiors. There-
forc, Alstter and divergence problems gunsally are
not as severe as for the main sotors. Uaually. the tail
rotor biades are much stiffer than those in main
rotors due to the operating cnvironment. Aleo, tbe
relative irsertia, as cxpreaeed by Lock number, is of
thc order of 2.5 times that of thc main rotor. Finally,
asprct ratios of tais rotor bis des are much lower.
Aithough these factors reduce the tendency toward
flutter and divergence, probleras with tail soiors bave
occurred. so the proper combination of 3, and pitch
Iink stiffnccs must be usod. The methods diecusses
for the main rotor (par. 5-4) and tbe data in R.ef. 59
mua: be used to determine the design dctails nocessary
lo éliminate this problem
REFERENCES
1. Α. Ge ow an:δ C. Γ. Myers, Jr., Areodyaamics
of he Hc'icopier. MacMillan Co.. NY, 1952.
2. H. K. Heyson and Σ. Katzoff, Normal Compo-
nent of Inauc:δ Velocity of α Lifiing Rotor Wiih Α
Nom-ifoim Disk Louding. NACA TN 3690,
Apri! 1956.
3. R. I Liciten, "Som: Aspecis of Convertible
Aircraft. Design". Jouna! af the Aeronantical
Sciences (April 1956).
4. F. Ξ. Wortinann und 3. Μ. Drecs, Design of Air-
foils j: Rotors, presented at CAL/AVLABS
Symposiurn on Aercdynamics of Rotary-Wing
and V7OL. Aircrast, 1969.
5. Δ. Σ Jonre, J. R. Oison, &nd . J. Landg.ebe, Α
Keyississment of Rotor HNovering Performance
Pred ctior Methods. presented ai the 23rd An-
nual I: stional Meeting of the American Heli-
cop:an Socicty. May 1557.
6. Ω. v: Tanner, Charts fos Estimauing Rotary-
Wing Perfonnarce in Hover and at High Forwcrd
Sp-*σ. NASA Contractor Report CR-λ14,
November 1964.
7 E. Λ. Brown and Π. Σ. Schmidt, "The Effect of
Rotor-Pitching Velocity on Rosor-Lift Capa-
bility". Journsi of the American Helicopter
Socicty, 8, No. 4 (October 1963).
5-$3