• J-.
the cnglo-of-attack aler rates maneuvei These cantly.
obtained steady-state flight at distribution during
rotor thrust level. givtn and speed
capability, high maneuver to α,;hieve In general,
ι ε., nor- flight, steady-state in trimmed loading blade
factor, be Load low. 1.0, must nZ - factor mal load
to be related can capability maneuver, or (CT/ra), ,/-
with design rotor for α given 1.0. Thus, - (CT/u)Iwz
cotffi- thrust the trin lower the known (CT/χ),,,
factor load the the greater blade loading), (or cient
control decgn -,:rn under other The capability.
caps- maneuver for variables The major (C'/),.
and twist "or section, ratio, airfoil bility are advance
ratio. solidity given
decreases increases, ratio As advance (CT/O)Ω-
in- flight speed, an α given for Therefore, 8). (Rcf.
How- increases speed rotoi tip crease in (Cr/χ),,.
Pdvan- of value α maximum flight, level as for ever,
be exceeded, must not Mach number cing tip blade
if the be encountered stall can blade shock Advancing
too high. Mach number is
The magnitude of for α given advance (CT/ι)6
lift the maximum stetion strong function of ratio is α
is not ne.essarily blade tip. This near the coefficient
sction, funct-so or two-dir,,-enioal, of the dircta
cl., because lift coefficient section maximum
oscil- flow and such as spanwise complicating factors
good general it is α lating effects. However, airfoil
will the tip section of χ,.. iii that an increase rule
capability, theust the rotor maneuvering improve
occurs first, generally blade stall retreating Because
retreating blade cl. at the of the magnitudis . 1
New airfoil important. number also is quito Mach
the α tailoring of 4) allow (Ref. design developments
at value of sction obtain the peak profile to
Mach numbr. dosirod
capability twist also affects maximum thrust Blade
by controlling the lift distribution at the retreating
only determined twist is tip. Optimum blade
major maneuvers including analyses of the detailed
However, opti- pitch and roll rates. effects such as
case usually the maneuver of twist for mization
performance, to level-flight of α omprot- mdetrimental
Computation of helicopter ig required. miae o.een
is discussedin erformanM C more flight 3 ancuvering
AMCP 706-201. par. -. , detail in
•",
5-Λ4 INERTIA
era in autorotative Ro τ Rotoratertics
and velocity angula Rotor characteristics. landing
kinetic energy the rotational uniquely define inertia
of used in the development rotor "an be that of the
in α zero- velocity to arreqt descent force - decelerating
of ro- landinli. amount The or partial-power power

AMCP 70τ-2022
as is defined energy kinetic tational KER
α (Σ I ) Α I
(0-o) fi-lb KER , -
where
rotor. of the of inertia mass momcent - 'R
2 slug-ft
rotor the represent fl,,δ ad fl,,,ι symbols The
the end of and beginning at the velocities angular
deter- However, the respectively. maneuver, flare
(fi,1 new α for value for acceptable mination of an is
than the more with little judgmental, is largely rotor
the to assure that available experience α designer'σ
the flare. throughout remains controllable rotor
perfor- autorotativc of helicopter Computation
3-5.1. in par. detail further in discussed is mance
an 706-201 AMCP par. 3-5.3, In 706-201. AMCP
values Acceptable is developed. index autorotativc AI
are also inertia, the rotor henctc of and this index, of
discussed.
5.3.1 GENERAL α
be 0. gim- as articulated, can described Rotor systems
(sometimes referred to hingeless (or teetering), of baled
and flex-hinge. as "rigid"),
at- system are articulated rotor blades of an The
allowing hinges, hub with mechanical tached to the
swing and down, and to flap up blade froedon, the
The disk plane. lag) in the forth (lead and back and
to the hub are attached rotor of the hingeless tip blades
lead-la- flapping or mechanical hinges for without
enploys rotor notion. or strap-hinge, The flex-hinge,
blade to the structural attachment of the α flexible α
. IS, Λ,,, I . η,,,•,,,•u -,,η!u- η hub .,.
and the low stiff- of the hingeless rotor high stiffness
ness of the articulated or gimbaled system. '
been will have of rotor system the type Generally, by
In par. 3-3.3. design. during preliminary selected
is types of rotor system each of the AMCP 706-201,
is by which each the methods together with is dcribed,
control of to provide in turn is used and controlled
includes α simplified discussion helicopter. The the
flapping flapping (fully motions of α the summary of
of rotor the dynamics while rotor, articulated)
systems are described in detail in Chapter AMCP 5,
106-201. The descriptions of the several types of
dis- include 7dti 201, AMCP 3-3.3, in par, rotors
of disadvantages advantages and of the cussions
for siLes of the heiicopter with α review each, together
most appropriate. each may be α which
and kinematics systems of rotor The discussion
introductory the supplements controi which follows
5-7