components may include:
α. Engine compremor
β. Fuel control
σ. Engine oil-cooler
δ. Transr:ission oil-cooler
σ. Hydraulic modeale and ruarvoir
φ. Fuel cross-over valve
Fuel cell sumpe
η. Control linkage and bell cranks
ι. Acuatort
j. Crew ι. Drive shafts.
2. Kill Definition. Attrition, Forced Landing.
Mission Abort.
3. Kill Criteria. For convenicnce of analysis, the
helicopter generelly is divided into distinct systems
(ι.ε., crow, propulsion, fuel, fight controks, rotor.
power train, ctc.). Esch system contains components
that are vital io the succssful operation of the
syéem. Damage to α singie component is said to be
singly vulnerable. Components of α set are said to bc
mukiply vulurrable in α given kill category if damage
10 las than (π- 1) membors of the set docs not result
in α belicopter kill, but damage to at lesst ε members
of the set does result in α balicopicr kil. Although the
primary vulnerability analysis is conducted for the
aircraft in forward flight, thc list of vital components
shall show the level of kill for damagc when thc heli-
copter is in α hover mode of flight (soe Table 14-3).
4. Probability of α Kill Given α Hit (Px !H) 1or
Each Component. The designer assigns the Pr |H'σ
ε ee ν ε
proval so Ballistic Rescarch Laboratorics (BRL) at
Abardoca Proving Ground, Maryland. Π. \H'σ are
bacod on experimental firings on subjoct item. or like
itcms.
3. Presented Area (Ap). Once the conditional kili
probabilitics for cach component bave bcen ascer-
tained, it is necessary to roconsider the target tech-
nical description to determine component presented
areas. Onc of the icast complex and most frequently
uscd means of obtaining presented areas of nelicop-
ter components employs α planimeter to measure
them from scale drawings made for cach of the prin-
cipal views to be considered. Several computer pro-
grams, notably the MAGIC (used at BRL) Program
and thc SHOTGUN progrem, have been developed
for obtaining prerented arcas, as wcll as shielding for
the components. During this prcceas of obtaining
presentod arene, it is nocessary to consider the space
orientation of thc incividual components and evalu-
ate the masking or shielding provided to cach com-
ponont by the rest of the helicopter. !ν gencral, any
shiclding provided to α particular compe.rent by the

reut of the aircraft will be ruflected σ α rod
tbe: conditional kill probabilities for that coc
δ σ og sgp po sos oey
or viaws. Thic reductioe uf condinional kill prota-
jo suace so ge sog pisusdanoo sunq soj segdche soreq:4
tibc velocitics for α particutar viow or viowe. Thbis
reduction of conditional kill prel is not as-
ity of the tharont afler it bes perforutad uise
for some or ali of its preeagiad aren for ome or mers
of tihe viows coasidored. If this oocura, tibe pre
arem of the сой spomant for thaas vioms am
roducod correpondingly. Whea armor is pu
to protoct aircraft componenta, the affect τ Μ-
ror is analyzad as meseking.
nog peuncoos sg tgn epogo pregd-pangeg porejoy
ι.χ., number, weigar, velocity. and diractice of piaces.
(For some new types of arnsor, new firing deta will be
roquirod.) Data on saaterint abialds
contained in the clacsified date on maieriel "Tior"
scrios of reporia. Coanuie BRL concurning this sub-
ject 6. Vulnerable Ares (4υ). Antar the conditional kill
nents of the belicopter and the prosented aroee of
theac components bave bean desrminod, vuluerable
areas of thosc components are gonerated. For α given
threat, striking velocity, and view, the vuinerr ble aroe
of α componcnt is obtainod from Eq. 14-1.
Av = Ap ·Px \ H (14-1)
whare
Av = vulnerable area of component
- prcscntcu ares of compoñcni
Vulnerablc areas generally are classifiod as onc of
abie arca for singly and multiply vulnerabie compo.
nents. The singly vulnerable azes Avr of tbe system is
the sum of the singly vuinerablc arees Av, of abe com-
ponents of the sysiem.
τ = ρ. - ∴ (Px H), (14-2)
Only α limited amount of subtotaling may be ac-
complished in α sysiem of multiply vuinerable com-
ponenta. If, for examplc, vuinerabic areas wore com-
puted for σ multiply vuinerabie sct of components
forming α propulsion systens which containod two
1415