AMCP 706-202
For aluninum, therc are many different finishcs,
some ef which are usod to provide a oase for paint
and somc of wbich provide proiection withont
furthor peinting. The procraes all involve chromates
as an oxidizing ingrodient, and ali have proprictary
compocitions. Tbe performano: of these methods of
treaiment is governed by MIl-C-554:. Tbc reagents
may be appliod by sprayinz. dipping. or swabbing:
genorally, the metal is dippod in a sequence of baths
and rinans that create clcan, fine-grainod oxidc —
uniformly distributed over the surface — with no
coarae graias and no untrectod areas. Class 1 A trcat-
mands aust withstand expozure to sult spray for 168
kr and are unpaintad or foliowod by wash prime and
yrime trostments. Clan 3 coatings are simiar to
Clans IA costings, except that the electrical re-
sistance is Jow.
For magncsium, thcre are two primary anodizing
treaiments. Onc of these is the Dow 7 treatment
(MIL-M-45202) and the other method is thc HAE
treatment (MIL-M-45202). both of which involve
electrolytic an dizing of the melal surface in order to
build up a fairty thick layer of a complex aluminum-
mangsness-oxids phosphate. Naithe: is suitable for
ouidoor exposurc without further coutings. The pre-
ferred method involves pretreating. priming. and an
epoxy-polyamide finish.
Parts made of coirosion-resistent sieel are passi-
vated in order to deveiop their corrosion-resistant
qualitics. This prccass serves to remove the "active"
centers on the surface and to kave a thin, durablc,
transparent layer of oxide that prevents further cor-
rosive or oxidative attack on the mctal. Passivation is
accomplishsd by immersing the parts in an aqucous
rolution cvnsiscing of siri sii and sodium di-
chromate. The temperature of immersion varics fron:
70° to 155°F, depending upon the alloy involved and
the intended operating iemparature. Prior to treat-
-ennnn
line solution in order to resnove all of the particlas of
iron that may have accumulatod o.i the surface, as
these would devetop rust staies during the trcetmenit.
The passivation procon is detasied in QQ-p-35.
Ferrous surfaces that are not to be paintod usually
are treared witk black oxide. The rueulting depoait in
a hard. durable, oride surfaox tkaut is attractive and is
soracwhet resistant to corrosion and to vear. The
procees is applicable to both nonstanukem ass siais-
Iess stoels: it invoiver immersing the previously
ckeaned part is an alkalinc. or alkaline-chsomate, oxi-
dizing solution. followed by warm and then cold
water rinses. a fiaal chromic acid dip. and drying in
warm air. The process is defined in MiL-C-i3924.
2-36

Ferrous mctals that arc to te painted are given 8
phosphate coating in accordance with MiL-P-16232.
Thesc coutings are of two types: Type M. which Das a
phosphate basc: and Typc Z. which has a zinc phos-
phate basc. Type M coatings are more resistant to
alkaline environments than are Type Z coatings.
When they are applicd properly, the rcaction forms 8
mixed-metal phosphate coating on the surface of thc
ferrous metal that is closc-grained, finc, and froc of
powder and coarse grains and that seals the surface
well. The treated surface is more reiistant to cor-
rosion and provides a firni base upon which to apply
wash primc and prime coatings.
In all of the feregoing treatments, the metals em-
ploycd, especially the ferrous mctals, are subject to
the absorption of hydrogen from the solutions, and
the hydrogen serves to embritle ihe mctal. It is
desireblc to promote the diffusion of hydrogen from
the metal by heating &t 210°-225°F for 8 hr in order
to provide hydrogen embrittlement relief.
Still another class of finishes frequently employed
is the Name-sprayod type. In this technique, metals,
silicon dioxide. titanium dioxide, alumina, or other
oxides and cefamic materials are fed into e plasma or
oxyacetyienc flame — cither as strands or powder -
where they are vaporized and deposited on any sub-
strate that wili condense and hold them. By this
means, similar os dissimilar metais can be applied to
metallic or nonmetallic surfaces. Ceramic materials
can be applied in order to provide abrasive surfaces.
wear-resistant surfaces, or flame-resistant coatings.
MIl M-6874 covers ihe flame-spraying of mctals.
quer.ly machined in order to repair shafts, pistons.
pins, ctc. Onc uscful application has becn the Blame-
spraying of tiianium dioxicie conings upon ihe mciai
exhaust sk irts of jet engines for oxidation protection.
24.3 PLATING
Another method of applying attractive, durable,
and abrasion- and corrosion-resictant coatings to
metals and plastics is metal plating. The platings of
most interest in helicopter desigs are copper, nickel.
chromium. and cadmium. Except for electrical com-
ponents, where clectrical conductivity is impcrtant,
copper plating is usod oniy so provide a basc for tie
wear-resistant nickel and chromi-sm platings. Chro-
mium and nickel piatings are uaed so providc hard
and wear-resistant surfaves for sucis objects as anap
fasieners, strap holders, handies, knobs, seat arms,
instrument parts, and other items where peinting
would not be satisfactory or economicel. Cadmium
and zinc piuiing are employod almost exclusivcly to
provide galvanic protection agsinst corronion. Cad-
miurs is the preferrod coating for ferrous matal itoms