AMCP 706-202
5-8.3.1.2 Leading Defiaition
In designing the barrel for α specific configura-
tion, the various loads described in the preceding
paragraph mast be defined for the applicubic aircreft
mission profile. Loadings involvsd ins demonstration
and qualfication tests aiso must be 'onsicered.
Applicable specifications shall be defined by the pro-
pelle: procurement spacificstion.
From the analysis of propcller design paran.eters
and dynamies, à summary of significant loads is
prepared for sclected conditions. These loads are the
basis for ti:ε siructural analysis of the barrel.
5-8.3.ι.3 Berret Structurel Teoêσ
Afler the barrel has been manufactured, the
stresies at critical locations are mcasured under
various load conditions to sssurc structural integrity.
The barrel is strain-gaged, and an experimental stress
analysis is performod with axial loads applied to
simulate centrifugal loads and bending nioments,
besh static and vibratory.
An asaembly with cylinderical test bars instcad of
bladas is 'emed Ayaamaically to deicrmine its natural
frequency, so itat the reiention sprirg rate can be
&educed. Y'his is compased with the calculated valucs.
Ths barrel abo is fatiguc tastod to determine its ac-
tual margin of ssfety under tbe desigr. loads.
.3.2 Preglan Actamians and Contrels
Propeller pitch chrage sctuators and control
sysems σájust and maiatain binde angk scoording to
one of several conarol modes, as roquired by aircraft
and engine operating coaditions. One control mote
commonty used is consiant-spced governing. in
which α slectod propeier rotational speed ≈σ belt
conatant by α governor that raises or lowers biade
angic in respoua: to chaarges in forward spoed or
appied power. This is the contrgi modc used aimoet
uaiversally in Night operation of convestional air-
craft, wiar: it allows she pikos to sciect the most effi-
cicnt cembination of propeiler snd egine operuting
conditions. The otber common control mode is bets
control, in = hich ibe conirol scts α sckected biade
angke β, in response to direct pilot control er to the
output of α coordicated engine or arcra.? flight con-
trol syster. Beta control Γ.tan is used for propeller
reversal during landing. in low-thrust groued opera-
tion. and for propelicas uped as primary aircraft flight
controls, wuch as in VTOL aircraft. Many propellers
bave α combination control systen that uscs citber
constant-speed govering os beta control as required.
The pich contro! system bas two basic com-
ponenis: ihe control and tbe actuator. The control
receives signals from tbe pilot or anotber control
5-66

system or from the propelier itself. and transmits α
signal to the actuator to change blade angle at
hocesssry. The actuator converts this signal into α
mechanica' action to move and maiatain the blade
ungic.
5-8.3.2.1 Coctrol Coufigurations
Several arrangements are used for control compo-
nents. In one common configuration, the conirol
assembly ir nonrotating and mounted near the pro-
peller on the gearcase or surrounding the barrel teil-
shaft. The output of the control is α hydraulic flow
that is transferred to the pitch change accuator in the
barrel assembly through transfer bearings. The rate
of fow controls the rate of blade angle motion. In
another configuration, ths siationary portions of the
control produce α mechanical signal directly related
to the desired blade angle. This signal is transferred
to the barrel assembly through & mechanicai bearing
or σ differential gear train, and the rotating asscmably
contains the hydraulic valves and pumps required to
Grive the pitch change σ-tuator.
5-8.3.2.1.1 Cusstaut-speed Govermors
The input to α constant-spoed governor is & signal
calling for α desired propelier spced. This signal may
come directiy ftom the pilos or from another control
system, such α α synchronizei or α coordinated
power management control. The desired speed is
compared with the actual apced by α device such as α
speed-sct spring balanced against α sct of rotating fly-
weights driven by the propeller or engine. If aa off-
speed condition occurs, tic device puts out an error
signal, commonly in the form of à pilot valve dis-
piscenent. The valve displacement, in turo, meters
oil to the pitch change octuator, raising or lowering
the bisde angk to siow down or speed up the pro-
pelicr to correct the off-speed.
In forward-thrust operation, blade twisting mo-
ment always is toward low pitch. and the actuator
loads always are in one diroction. The governor, thcn,
nocas to metes high-pressure oil only to onc side of
the actuator piston to raise the blade angle; ketziag oil
drain back to the sump permits the twisting moment
to lower the blade sngke. Α gorernor with only this
function is calied : singlc-acting governor.
Α double-acting governor can direct high-preszure
oil to cither side of the actuator piston. This cap.
bility is required if the biades are to bc controliod in
reverse thrust operalioa or to be unfeatbered.
In many constant-spead governors, the pilot vaive
positioned by the spoed-sonsing device matiers ac-
tustor oil flow directly. Fos some deaigns. boreres,
large oil fious are roquirod and usc of : simple pilot