AMCP 706-202
c. Unsupported spans of 150-200 in. have
operatod saticfactorily. However, cable idier pulleys
in long straight runs minimizo friction oves fairlaads
and grommets.
d. Close spacing of cables shall be avoided.
Cables should not pass within 3.0 in. of structure,
equipment, or other cables.
e. The angle between the centerlinc of the cable
and the plance of the pulley should not exceed 0.5 deg.
f. To the maximum extent practicable, cables
should run along, or bc as close as possible to, the
neutral axis of the airframe structure.
g. Friction in a cable system should be
minimized by:
(1) Using a minimum number of pulleys
(2) Using the largest practicable pufley size
(3) Using the smallest cable diameter con-
sistent with strength and rigidity requirements
(4) Designing for the sma:lest practicable
wrap angle consistent with maintt..ice of good
cable contact and pulley rotation.
h. The effect of charges in temperature can be a
serious problem in controi cable systems, due to the
difference berwee the coefficients of therma! ex-
pansion of the aluminum airframe and the steel con-
trol cable. The probicm is less severe in pulleyless
missible. cable systems becausc higher rigging loads are per-
i. Tension regulators may be instalied in quad-
pansion &nd contraction of the cables without ap-
preciable variation in rigging load.
j. Nylon-covered cables can incrcase cable life
by damping hig'-frequency vibrations.
k. Cabl: guards shall be used at points of tan-
gency of the cablc to the pulley.
4. C hains. The use o1 chains shali be subject to the
approval of the procuring activity.
In spite of the inheren: advantages, &pplications of
fly-by-wire teciniques to helicopter control have
been siow to materialize. The substitution of fly-by-
wire electrical signaling systems fer conventional
linkages bctween cockpit and swashplate bas a
number of potential benefits. However. before any
for production, a high level of reliability must be as-
sured.
The advantages of an electrical control system will
depend upon the type and size of the helicopter in
which the system is installed. For example, some of
the benefits to be cxpocted in large, heavy-lift he'li-
copters sre improved flight safety reliability and re-
ducod vulnerat ility, higher fidelity of control, and re-
duced weight. The characteristics and capabilities of
6-24

a truc fly-by-wire system arc cor..parcd wi.. varic s
alternate heavy-lift helicopter control systems in
Rofs. 23 and 24.
6-5.2.2 Power Actuator to the Swashplate
Design requirements and standards for that por-
tion of the helicopter fligh.l control system between
the power actuator and the nonrotating swashplate
arc defined by MIL-F.9490 and MIL.-F-18372.
In addition to these requirements, iraportant con-
siderations include fail-safe design, structural coni-
pliance, and control system dynamics.
Various fail-safe approaches are:
1. Stand-by design. Two cqual-strength ioad paths
are provided. The secondary load path is isolatcsi un-
til primary failure occurs. The primary lcad path is
visible durirg helicopter inspections. This approach
r juires that each load path be designed for infinite
ic t3 insure tnat the components of thc secondary
will last between overhauts if the failure of the pri-
ma:y path is not detected.
2. Load-sharing Sesign. The component is made
up of two or more sections or laminations that are
joined mechanically. If one clement fails, the re-
maining clements hiave fuil le ad-carrying capability.
If the elemerts art bonded, the bcnding agent shall
prevent a crack from propagating across the section.
If the component is not bonded, other antifretting
barriers must be employed. A section of the com-
ponent consists of the maximum practicable number
of laminatiens.
3. Crack-detection design. Design techniques
could include: pressure drop, oil or fluid leak, elec-
trical detectors, and highly penetrating dye.
Inadequate struc:ursl siiffness can affect the con-
troi system in several ways. Deflections of the air-
frame can introduce inputs to the control system, an
effect that is minimized by routing the controls close
to the neutral axis of the airframe. When the support
structure is not stiff, the power sctuator slso can de-
fect under load. If the control system output is
sensed by the compliant structure, a limit cycle in-
stabiity can occu- and ultimately may destroy the
helicopter if it is allowed to proceed unchecked. The
designer shall introduce compensating linkage or suf-
ficient structural stiffness in order to assure that the
control system is insenzitive to deflections.
The primary flight controls are part of the com-
plex servo system that deternines the transient and
frequency responses of the helicopter. In this system,
the mecharical controis play a small but significant
role. In addition to the mechanical controls, per-
formance of the servo system depends upon:
1. Rotor dynamics and aerodynamnics
2. Inherent helicopter stability