The major elements of any fire cositrol system con- weapon is aimed and fired. An optical sight, either
sit of sight, sensors, and computei. The weapon direct-viewing or periscopic, Senorally is used for
controls are a part of the fire control equipment, and daylight operations, and may provide selectable do-
their functions are to nctivate the gun or missile, greos of optical magnification.
regulate gun firing rate, select the weapon, regulate The sighting station also may provide target range
the ammunition feed system, inventory the am- and image intensification sensors. Target range
munition supply, etc. equipment can include lasers, radar, or stadiametric
The complexity and sophisticntion of an avionic ranging devices. Image intensifiers include low-light-
fire control system wvill vary according to the degree level television, electronic image amplifiers, and op-
of accuracy required, rnd the type and flexibility of tical telescopes.
the armament subaysate,. The armament subsystem Direct viewing weapon sights have been a major
may be an integral subsy3tem of the helicopter, or it source of fatal and serious head trauma during
may be a modular comporeeni that can be snapped on crashes in US military aircraft during World War II,
or off to suit the particular mission requirements. Korea, and Vietnam. It is essential that all sighting
Thus, the designer must establish fire control design devices be designed to eliminate their potential as in-
requirements commensurate with required aircraft jury producers. Factors to be taken into con-
missions. sideration in order to delethalize sighting devices are: Because the kinds of missions to b-. derformcd arc Ability 1. to instantly remove, jettison, or stow likely to be broad in scope (ranging, perhaps, from during emergency
close tactical support to rescue), the fire control re- 2. Not to create additional hazard(s) to other crew
quirements likewise will be varied. Mission analysis pers.nmnel in the event of emergency
will determine the fire control functions to be per- 3. Adequate stowed tiedown strength to prevent
formed, and a careful selection of multiuse arms- sight from rebounding during impact
mernt subsystem equipment will reduce weight and 4. Not to represent lethal missile 1azard in the
for helicopters include flexible turreted Suns, fixed Review 5. of Ref. 5.
guns, rockets, and missiles. The interface character-
istics of their supporting functions are as different 8-44 SENSORS 3S
the armament systems themselves. Consequenfly, de- Fire control system sensors provide the in-
tailed integration design specifications for each typo formation necessary for solving the fire control prob-
of armament subsytem be issued so as to insure Ien and directing shall the weapon(s) at the target. Sensor
ffective weapon delivery. include those that measure target and typ aircraft
-84.2 INSTALLATION motion or position, and those that assist in target de-
tection. Externally mounted sensors should be
Adequate provisions for installation of the housed in aerodynamic fairings wherever possible,
elements of the respective fire control systems should and protection should be provided against such en-
be incorporated into the helicopter to insure proper vironmental conditions as handling and accidental
matching or harmonization of such systems with ar- ground maintenance damage. Sensors that produce
mament. The fire control system should be installed elactro-optical or electronmagneic energy should be
as specified in the helicopter specification governing located so that neither direct nor reflected energy
control of guns, rockets, and guided missiles. The enters the crew compartment. Furthermore, the
helicopter manuuacturer is responsible for the shock mounting provisions for auch semors should permit
mounting of all fire control equipment installed, attachment of ground operation warning devices to
Vibration-isolating mounts should be incorporated alert ground crews to potential radiation hazards.
so that equipment will not be affected adversely by vi- The mechanical interfee between the sensor awd
brations in the helicopter. Testing be in ac- the helicopter should be shall desgned for adequate
cordance with MIL-STD-810. strength, ease of maintmanc, and amcurate a:gn-
meat with the helicopter datum plane. Sensors pro-
8-4.3 SIGHTING STATION jecting from helicopter mold line should be iocated
S * I
The sighting station providts the means by which so that they will not interfme with aircw entry and
the weapon operator establishtx the xLý.nuth and de- exit. Aerodynamic soeors includc those or the pitot
pression coordinates of the target relative to the air- tube, anglof-attack indicator, and air data com-
craft position. For flexible weapons, the sihting sta- puter. They should located be as iar forward on the
tion includes the operating controls which by the aircraft, and as far from the fUseg or appendags
84e•tigb llf ralmqe