706-202__ *uRAP
thereby reducing the impact shock on the bearing
Ving,
Some insight into useful design techniques may
front gained examining three configurations of α
bevel gear. tail rotor gearbox pie, spiral 90-deg
used on most helicopters with single main rotors.
is schematic representation 4.14 α of typical α
minimum-weight design featuring overhung pinion
and mountings, designated as Configuration pear
The pinion and gear are both in overhung mountings
duplex bail and cylindrical supported by
bearings. single ont the Α of 7.62-mm hit on any
probably bearings would not result in instant
tional failure; the boaring would continue to orcrate
for some time the considerable driving because
que would bre~κ up and eject the relatively frangible
elements and cage of the rjis.~ng damaged bearing,
Howtver, direct hits on either the pinion cylindrical
roller bearing or the bearing supporting ball duplex
the would soon in result geau loss excessive Of
BAL.Λ BEARINGS DUPLEX
Flgvrt 4-15. Tail lRotor
4-20
At

_____
mesh position. As the ci fectivc: radial clearance of
either of these bcatings increased with the resulting
be rapid bearing deterioration, the operating backlash
sitn- of' the gear tecth similarly would increasc while the
as depth of tooth engagemcitt would decrease cor-
Fig. respondingly. The probability of the gear teeth skip-
ping mesht or breaking off upon application of sip
nificant yaw control would be Hits on thc out- gkcat.
board bearings I would yield lower probability of - far
gear miesh failatrc.
rollcr Configuration 2 is shown schematically in Fig. 4-
four gear set it; identical that of Conifigu- 15. to The beval
func- ration Pairs the same types of bearings used in cof 1.
Configuration are now used to straddle I mount both
tor- pinion and geAr membtrs. In this configuration the
increasing radial clearanctc in any bearing sustaining
α hit wifl result in less dectrioration of the gear mesh.
with α corresponding decerase in tlte probability of
gear fetilurc upon sudden yaw control input. gear- Α
box of this configuration designed for tail rotor geAr
CONFIGURATION 2
ρ7
BEARINC- ~ROLLLO 7'
Gearbox 7.62 mm Proof -