CHAPTER 3
PROPULSION SUBSYSTEM DESIGN
3 LIST OF SYMBOLS
Λ- Α, - arca of inket, inside dismeter, in.² maximum inket frontal area, in.²
ambient pressure, paia maximum volocity siong Icading cdge sur-
facc, fps
inlct velocity. fpe
free stream veiocity, fps
fuel flow, Ib/hr
AP inlct pressure lous, pai
8 Π./14.7, dimensionless
31 INTRODUCTION
liminary design of the hezicopier after the enginc χ? engines have bcca selectod, and their location in the
airframe has boen choeen. This chapter is conczrne? with the detaii amign of tie various possibk propul-
sion sysien configurations. The propulaioes sysiam consists of the cnginc or
engines, air induction sub.ystan, cxhause subsysicm,
fucl and lubrication subsysiems, starting subsyzicn,
controls, transmission subaysem, auxiliary power
unis (if applicable), and infrared radiatioa suppres- sion subsysiem. It also shali includc cooling and fire
protoction subsysicms. The air induction subaystem
also shall include inlet protection. In the paragraphs that foliow, engine installation
considerations. propuloion control requirernents, fuel
and lubrication suboystem requiremenas. compari.
ancnt cooling. axpessorics, and APU (auxiliary power
unit) deaiga ruquirensenis are discueeco. Thc truns-
mission subsysiom is discussod in Chapter 4.
3-2 ENGINE INSTALLATION
3-2.1 GENERAL.
are poesibie: front drive, roer dr've, side by side for Many differag enginc instalistion arrangemenis
multienginc bclicopters, otc. Enginc locations noay be
selected so as to control the owerall CG of the hcli-
sdpou
meiry. All ths subeysams zhall function uedi in-
dividualiy and sogaber as an intogral propuision
syMem. Enginc instaliations usually fall within onc of three
cutogories: the cuaploicly subuerged inst aitation, tic
somi-expcend installation, and tic esposed installa-
tioa..

AMCP 706-202
3-3.1.1 Subaerged Inststiation
The submerged engine installation places the
enginc completely within the airframe. This arrangc-
ment, an examplc of which is shown in Fig. 3-φ.
requires curefui consideration to insure adcquate
uccessibility for maintenance. Removabic firewall sections often arc used. but
this requires attention to the detail design of sculs and
socuring devices to insure that the fire protoction of adjacent components and crew stations will not
diminish with repcated removal of thc firewalls.
Although it may be difficult to service submerged engines because of limited accessibility, their location
ofien makes it possible for mainterance personnel to
work from ground Ievel or from the cabin floor,
eliminating ihe nced for built-in service platforms. Becausc the enginc may be located deep within the
airframe. engine air induction and exhaust ducts
usually are greater in kengih and more complex than
foi any oiter configuration. However. (his innerent
inefficiency may be offsct by the cxte mal clcanliness
of the aircraft.
32.12 Icmtallatioen
The scmiexposed installation usually instiles the
engine between tbe main gearbox and the top of the
fusclage. The cngine is mounted directly on the air-
frame. Tbis method, an examplc of which is shown in
Fig. 3-2. requires only superficial structure to com-
picic the engine cnclosure.
Thc baight of the engine in this type of installation
usually requires built-ia service platforms. These
platforms oftan are built into the cowling. so that the
work platform automatically is availabic when the
cowl is opencd. When this is impoesible and separste
platforms are providod. the engine cowling can be
much lighter becausc it ncod nor be structural.
The closeness of the rotor to the engine installation
roquires that careful consideration be given to the
cowt-locking mechanism. It shouid be casily operabic
by onc man aad capabik of teing inspoctod frons
ground levei for adequate security. The scmiexposod instailation Icnds itself well to the
uae of cither front- or rear-drive cngines borauac the
engine can be locatod cithier forward or aft of the
main gancbox. The rear-drive encine muay resuli in
very sbort cngiae air isduction subeysiens that can
be anti-iond efficientty by mnst bcaling systems..
Front-drive enginec may result irn nrore compiex in-
duction subrysioms, and, becauase of tbeir com-
3-1