1o contrel unless the ring cross-sectional thickness is
large enough for thc loading conditions involved.
Ring creep is the σ'ow reletive (lagging) motion of
the ring with respect to the shaft and eccurs in some
instances as α result of sufficient fretting wear to re-
Cuce the interference fit. Α relative rotational spced
of as littie as 10-* × shaft speed may rezult in suf-
ficiert wear over several hundred hours to redace the
design interference. Often, creccp occure initially
baausc of insufficient design interference.
Spinning is α term used to dencte an advanced
statc of creep that occurs in cases with loose fit up or
no interference between the shaft ard the inner ring
of the bcaring. With hardenec. and ground precision
interface surfaces, polishing and advanced wear rates
often resuit when the relative rotational speeds ap-
proach 10 to 20% of shsast 3pecd under operating con-
Citions not unlike thos- in α simp!χ slec-ε bearing.
Fig. 4-27 (from Ref. 82) shows α wear vs time func-
tion for α cylindrical roller bcaring application.
There are α number of design practices that may be
used to counteract these phenomena. They are
described here in α descending order of preference.
1. The extent of the inteiference dit nectsary to
provide sufficicnt radial force to prevent creep may
be calculateci and enployed in the design. Two fac-
tors that must be considered gre:
α. Circumferential stretch of the bearisog ring
under applied rolling element loads which efectively
increases the inside diameter (ID) of the ring.
β. The influence of the temperature gradient
from shaft to the bearing ring upon relative iherma!
expansion. This gradient is α function of the cooling
paths and of heat generation or friction loss.
Ref. 6 presents α calculation technique suitable for
interference fit determination. However, the
calculations cited assuine α solil shaft and generous
4.°0
•.ek BEARINC DATL CV AORICAL RLLE9
3.5H 207 §12τ CP .
μ. 2 10′ ρ.sj .-
INNER RING FIT, LOOSE 1.5
1.0
0.5φ
— Ο
0.5
ино:- σ1
:0 40
OI'tRATING TIME N
Figure 4-27. Creep Wear — Inner Ring
Fit vs Operatileg Time

AMCP 706-202
ring sections such as sre found in 200 or 300 series
bearings. Ther -fore, when dealing wiah application of
this formula to lignier section bearings combinec
with hollow shafts, it is necesacry to compensate for
the reduead radial pressure per unit interferenco by
the method ef elastic ing theory as defined in Ref.
83. Uee of interference fits that produce surface ten-
silc stresscs in *he circumferential diroction above 10.,-
000 psi should be ap;roached with ceution beceusc
the fatigue life of the race msy be reduced.
2. Excessive thermaf grsdients should be avoided.
Because the circulated Iubrication oil acts :o modu-
late these gracients through forced convective
cooling. an increase of oil flow to the shaft and
bearing ofen can be used to slieviate thermul prob-
lems.
3. Very thin ring sections cs used in AFBMA sizcs
for cylindrical roller-type bcarings shoula be svoid-
ed for nigh-losd applications. Eliminaion of the in-
lindrical roller applications is as effective mcans of
avoiding the problem sltogcther.
4. Hardeneri (κ_ob). ground, or honed journa!σ
(roughness ≤Α.Α10) with dimensional tolerances
equel to or cloßer than the rings of the bearing will
assure attainment of desired calculated pressures and
will withstand frequent assembly and disassembly
and long service with minimal loss of interference.
5. It is desirable to use 2/3 lip-depth shoulders,
spacers, and clamp nuts that are square with the jour-
nal surface and provide igid axial χ'amping. Positive
nut lock devices σ!ways shouid be used because ring
creep under high axial loading may rotete the nut.
Because bearing ring creep results from α lag of the
ring bchind the shaft rotational spscó, it is simple to
deiermine whether such conditions will scrve to
tighnen or loosen the nut.
6. Copper or silver plating on thc shaft interfuce
ducing or virtually eliminating fretting corrosion and
thus prolonging component service life.
7. Positive ruig-shaft interlocking with notched
rings and keys have bocn employed to prevent crecp.
However, satisfactory installations are difficult to
achicve because sutficient fretting corrosion may oc-
cnr between thc shaft-key-bearing ring surfaces to
precipitate bending fatigue failure in one or sucre of
ihe members.
Outer ring (nonrotating load) diametral clearances
and clamping require somcwhat lass diligent at-
tention than dc the inner riags of bearings. How-
evei. heavily loaded angular contact thrust draringe
must bc well clamped and their outside diameters
443