• 1 •
locations where flight test inhtrumcntation will be
placed. Thesc calculations should cover the complete
ground-air-ground cycle, including landing, taxiing,
and towing. In such α sequecnce, all of the static, tran-
sient, and oscillatory stresses and vibrations should
be compasted.
3. The stresa and vibration calculations should be
reviewed to determine where design optimization
should start. If the performance, stresses, vibrations,
handling quaaities, and other rotor characteristics
meet but do not exceed the specification require-
meats, then the preliminary design may represent an
optimum configuration. if the helicopter greatly
exceeds requirements in one or more of these arcas,
weight penalty generally results. Design changes
should be made and at least α portion of the analysis
based upon the maneuver spectrm should be recom-
puted. If tht design fails to meet the specifications in
certain arew ,, the design must be improve I 'nd α por-
tion of the maneuver spectrum analysis should be
rccomputed to demonstrate compliance,
At the end of the iteration, thi detail design should
start with α sat of loads for static and dynamic stress
calculation, and α reasonable assessment of vibra-
,
tion
The detail design of the rotor system should be in-
itiated by making dimensional drawings of all parts.
The designer should follow the preliminary design as
closely as possible. However, compromises often may
be required, some of which can aiter the dynamic
chepracteristics significantly. As the design pro-
greases, section properties, weights, inertias, and
stresses should be computed for the detai! parts. As
soon as the first design iteration is completed, the
rotor natural frequencies, loads, and stresses should be recomnuted. These stresses should be used as the
.basis for α fatigue analysis, which should be guided
"additionally by experien= from the test histories of
it'milar parts ana idealized material samples. Depen-
ding upon the outcome of this first design iteration,
the design should be accepted or another iteration
started.
Significant advances have been made with heli-
copter flight simulations. For example, Ref. 14
describes α recently developed analytical tool for
computer "flight testing" of VTOL designs. Steady-
stawe flight, maneuvers, and gust response effects are
included so that cornfiguration required changes can
be made readily during the preliminary and detail
design stages. This objective is achieved by detailed
) reprewentation of the aircraft, including rotors, wings,
- auxiliary propulsion, and control systems. Complete
blade element analysis of the main rotor(σ), tail rotor,
and propeller(σ), as applicable, are performed

AMCP 7Ω6202
through α maneuver, and are based upon the In-
stantaneous aerodynamic and dynamic environ-
ments. Time histories of rotor blade loads and bend-
ins moments are calculated. The basic equations and
programming procedures are presented and discussed
rnd in Ref. 14. The representation of airframe rotor
parameters, the types of maneuver inputs, and the
available output formats also are discussed in detail.
Typical case studies are given. This analysis is
capable of evolving into α generalized procedure with
the additiou of details such as elastic pylon and fuse-
lsge, and α fully aeroelastic rotor. Complete docu-
mentation of this particular method can be found in
α Ref. Comparable 15. met':ods have been developed
by other contractors.
5-4.1.2 Oscillatory Load Design Comiderations
Oscillatory loads are α major factor in rotor design;
but the calculation of oscillatory loads is not yet suf-
ficiently accurate for life prediction and design
assurance. Therefore, rotor design is guided by cal-
culatcd natural frequencies, static loads, and factored
oscillatory loads. The final demonstration of design
adequacy comes from flight and fatigue testing.
5-4.1.2.1 Rotor Oscillatory Load Calculation
Most current procedures for computing rotor
natural frequencies and loads are based on Mykle-
stad'σ development of the dynamics of α rotawing
beam (Ref. 16) and on simplified, two-dimensionl
aerodynamics (Ref. I). Typically, such analyses can
1 5 used to compute natural frequencies and airloads
separately; ther the two analyses are combined to
compute the forced steady-state response. Many ver-
sions of this procedure have been rit!χ ecito developed. foeaattowi.hhos Α
been used for designing two-bladed rotors for nearly
α decade, is given in Ref. 17.
5-4,1,2.2 Drawing Board Phase
As noted previously, the drawing board phase of
the rotor detail design is an iterative procedure and
typically involves several groups of engineering speci-
alists. The procedure is best explained by briefly
describing the functions of several elements:
I. Τ'he areodynamics group sizes the rotor,
de',clops the blade contours, and helps determine the
static load spectrum during the preliminary design
phase. Often this work carries over. with little
change, into the first step of detail design.
2. The rotor design group starts itera- the design
tion by laying out the preliminary rotor design and
developing dimensional drawings for the detail parts.
The designers must be cognizant or the stresses and
5-17