CHARACTERICS TYPICAL 7-2. TABLE
U I
..
" URREN • Τ C / H Τ . WEIG ' • 'Τ Π EW - hr β
lb 2hr CAPABILITY TYPE AT
Iu IRATE
50 CAPACITY ξ 10-13 75 NICKEL-CADMIUM
CAPACITY 10-13 20 78 LEAD-ACID ξ
ξ CAPACITY 6 2530 34 SILVER-ZINC
not reach current does gtnerator output When the
"the at battery will charje limit, the current-regulator
will be deter- The charging current voltage. constant
during the battery of charge of the by the state mined
considered. out- When the generator time .intervals
the current-regulation to exceed current tends put
the reduces automatically regulator the limit,
" the to lim;τ the current voltage so as to generator
the battery these conditions, value. Under regulated
equal to thc oaf- current cha.rae,• at α constant will be
and the current the regulated ference between
battery state- in current. The increase utilization-load
by the can be computed this ".ase in 6, of-charge
formula: followinm
Α-hrSuch 0.8I
Α-hr (7-2) Σ-
where
- charging current, Α Ic
min time, charging χ -
efficiency charging 0.8 -
battery including loading system total When
-
of the rating exceecs the continuous charging -
output the limits regulator current α generator,
battery the that means This value. safe α current to
the utilization difference between the supply ust. μ
current. generator maximum the and load current
the operating, is the system when any case, In
at or discharging charging either always is batte~υ
of the overall by the demands determined some rate
generator. output of the and the system utilization
"The any at charging state the of conditions actual
and voltage generator the by controlled are time
current regulator.
in nickel-cadmium especially temperature, Battery
over- to prevent be monitored should batteries,
of Α combination reduces capacity. heating, which
of 150•°F) and (ι.ε., in excess battery temperature high
7-16

24 SYSTEMS AH BATERY V, 34 OF
~~~RETE•NT
'AE• ION
" , FONo . HARG • . OFCh / - η / β-
CELLS CEtL 14DAYS AT200Α, AT200Α,
VOLTAGE 80"F AT 0 of 800F
.1,2. 19..; 93% 7 9
j 1.9 12 90% 5 3
1.4 17 88% 16 17
in α con- can result at constant voltage overcharging
un: This is an runaway". called *'thermal dition
that ulti- temperature rise in battery controllable
As the temperature the battery. will destroy matcly
resistance decreases, effective internal increases, the
drawn from the currents to be ever-higher permitting
the re- decreases in turn source. This constant-voltdge
spiral. ever-increasing in an still further, sistance
the battery condition of the over-all In general,
SOMA" cha-o"ν-- monritor,,δ durins should be
(battery con- systems incorporate control lations
and tewiiperature which monitor ditioner/analyzers)
bat- the geneial constantly analyze state-of-charge,
ar on and off charging proess status, and cut the tery
conditioas dictate.
systems typically us,; other approaches to
battery-charging, some of which are itemized in
operational with tweir rincipol 7-3, along Table
characteristics.
7-3.3 UTILIZATION LOAD ANALYSIS
.
based be should assignments load utilization I he
cn- be to likely conditions dcmand;ng most the upon
it shoud For example, operation. countered during
night, at ting is oper, aircraft the that be assumed
and climb, during takeoff, lights used landing with
duration the conoerning data Approximate landing.
To obtain assumed. or known be should load each of
the inter- analysis, the load from results conservative
occur to are considered usually peaks load mi:tent
duration, heavy the short Despite concurrently.
can reduce starting, engine as during such loading,
be con- should and sharply capacity battery the
sidered.
arbitrary set of prepared for an load analysis is The
set of conditions α svere Too conditions. operating
Fpst during power system the would overburdcn
choce ot conah- optimistic An overly operations.
aircraft. The of the limit the usefulness tions would