per yard, and 2.4.1.3.3 F"be parallel per strand, strands Miaments hopilped
twists pc.- inch of the strands. commo3ν Likewise. there form or is The third rcinfoiroment α is
multiplicity of fabrics woven from thc.ic that chopped Fiber mat, as defined by MIL-Μ-15617. yaifls
vary not only in type and amount of arns but also Because thc Fibers arc short ) in inno their orientatIon is
thc type of weave. MIL-Y-λ 140 is an excellent completely random. this material is veycm
F or reference for definitions and rcquit emcnts for ti,α formable. For the same reasons. atid also because
various yarns and woven fabrics, its high bulk which limits the percentage of glas -
type of reinforcement selctcird The will depend obtainable in α laminate mechanical properties are - η
upon the mechanical property requirements, part lower than with roving or fabric. Continuous (swirl)
shape, and applicable fabrication technique as dis- strand mat is another veriation and is particularly
cussed in the paragraphs that follow, useful for deep contours. in both types of θ- mai. -
resin of amount small α with place 1 in held is glass Filaments Continuous Nonwoven. 2-4.1.3.1
ranging Both types are available in weights Thi fom o axium binder. renfoceentoffrs Α_4
1 oz to oz per corresponding to lami- 0.75 3 ft . mechnicl popeties bu ha miimumfabicaion fromn
possibilities due to the difficulty of placing and align- nl. atd thicnfiesseno absou0.3 in. trodue 0.00in.per
ing the reinforcemuent in complex shapes. Α big ad- Mith nald rei~nfo 6icemincallso ishproduc promrn- ldin
of construction adsetmoigco- ntewihrsitiss is practi- this type where v'antage
(SMC). pound proportion in oriented be can fibers the that is cable
spray- the by fabricated can be parts fiber Chopped winding direction. Filament given anly stress in the to
subsequiently. described τ-echniques Preform or up with technique fabrication used most widely is the
4.. FaratoMeod construction is continuous filaments. This nonwoven
covredmoe cmpetey ν pr.2-43.As previously discussed, each of the common ν'
2-4.1.3.2 Woven Fabric forms of glass reinforcement (roving, fabric, mat) can
mechaniv-ul be good either dry or preimpreitnated withth el constru-ctwn This proidus niorchip
properties and formability and is. theref'ore, the niost laminatirip resin, which is cured or dried partially α to )
or tacky condition. The latter, called preprep, commonly used reinforcement in aircraft fabrica- solid
'
tion. When wetted with resin, the cloth has con- arc advantageous in that they contain controlled, α
siderable ability to stretch and conforfm to rather uniform, and readily measurable amount of resin.
because complcr. contours. Although intended specifically for arc, therefore, easier to up, wet lay- They lay
and polyester laminates, MIll-C-9084 fabric usually up operations often arm messy odorous. Pre- is
varying degree of tack so specified for larniiat"σ made with all resins. IKaquire- pregs can obtained be with
because ments for eleven basic fabrics and six subtypes arc de- as to suit the spwcific operation. And, corn-
fined in the specification. Approximate thickness per~ quality con tests can mitde before the part pleie be irol
the. problems of incorrect weigtding from in. for 112 fabric to in. is fabricated, 0.003 0.027 ranyes and ply
arc of the resin system eliminated completely. (Still heavies fabrics, oven from mixing for 184 fabric. ω
pre-pre" In arc avia~hbl than yarns, rather rovings er fife-, : o~ζ Ii- ι'll-----ses he(
.es-μ-λ *.o
thatI catalysts with curing agents or covered in MIL- formulated to 0.045 in. pcr these are ply-. of up
least at for 250*-3Σ0*F require heat to cure (generally are balanced Most of these fabrics %%eavcs. C-ι19663.)
.
and then melts initially, Under heat, the resin I construction in the warp and with nonoinally equal fir).
fill directions: 181 fabric at per 0.009 is the ply coiiverts Mi. chemiically to thermoset α solid. Some Ω, v
prepreg lami- most test lami- pressure almost always is required in standard balanced fabric upon which
betwtien order to maintain good contact Repire- nating in published properties data are based. nate- and
reater This pressure results in plies of reinforcement. is 143 fabric. the extr,:me of unbalance ing %hich cm,
glass ratios and, consequently, in higher as its fill resin flow about times as great 10 has warp strungth α
better mechanical properties than are obtained strength. This approaches the nonwo%,en con- arid
laminates. sonic with unpressurizcd wet-layup struction described previously, sacrificing
2 mechanical properties for improved drapability. Generally, epoxy resins and preprcgs of roving. j
Most high-strength, glIAss- fabric- based laminates tape, or fabric are associated with components of Lre
made from 181 and/or 143 abrics. higher quahlt, cost, and strength, while polyester
As with MIL-C-9094, MIL-Y-λ 140 originally resins and wet-lay up (or SMC) processing of fabric or swas
interldeo polyester laniinates. its re- arc used where maximum required properties do lor However. nina )
Σ quliremeflts also usually are specified for fabrics con- justif*υ the increased costs. Those fabrication ri)τ
taining epoxy compatible finishes. applicable to construction of laminated mecthods
2-13
u