708-901 33ξ9
* strengtà to the troadwaya within the cargo comp-art-
mant. It is desirabis, bowever, that the catire ran.π
have α uniform bearing surengtit, equal to that of the
compar.nont treadways. Ramp odgoe and docr sills
must be designed to withstand the senre lecalized
impact loadisigs encou.torod is cargo Operations. E:λ
the absence of more pecific design α iteria, the ramp
edges, door silis, and verticai door frames should be
designad to sustain without damage α single randoni-
ly loc od lond equal to the weight of the heaviest
singte item to be londod, the loas baing appliod to the
structure through α 1-in. radius sphere.
Ramp extensions, if noceasary, should conform to
the strengih requirements of the integral ramp and
compartment treadway. Extensions should have 8
continuous width equai to that of the ramp. If this is
not possible, the more narrow individual rs mp eaxtei-
sione should be made revorsibic, with α arrooth sur-
face on one side for cargo loading and aidc Banges on
:. the opposite side for guidance of wbeclod vehickes.
Α winch shouid be provided for the purposc of
losding aad unloading cargo fsom cargo helicopters.
Although the winch should be located at the forward
end of tixe cargo compariment, it mey be located
clacwbere providod tihat α suitable combination of
blocks and pulileys can be arranged to guide the
winch cable. As à minimum requirenent, tse wioch
should be capabic of both pulling cargo cn board and
extrscting cargo from the compariment to the ramp.
Reversal of direction o? pull can be accompliashed by
rerigging the winch cable over snetch blocks located
on the ramp. Saatch blocks that can be &ttached to
cargo tiedown fittiags will geatly improve the fiexi-
the compar: zut. All coceasary blocks and pulleys
jo uui:β nq aa so pd o π ad q jo noudr bo oq suz jo urd τo popa wd ae ω
the halicopter, and provsions for their mounting and
sorage must be includod.
Α deairable, but noncmoutial, socons'ery mode of
. ε nqe ro
compertmrot, with the cabie rigged over & ceiling-
mounted puley. If α floor hatch is avaiiabie, the
cergo winch can bu usod to α limited dogroe as an
exta aa! load hoist. &iowovor, the dasigner should
consiier the rouficting roquirements wbich this
aoplicetion impoon upon the cargo :σ iach. Α winch
uge Α
speed caprabiliy. Thus, althougà force leveis are quite
:sigh, the Jow cabie sprxd teode tr minianize powr
roquirementa, size, and weght. On. tinr other hand, av
axtarns! loed boss:, tc he of sny valuc, roquirec σ isigo;
roel-in rate kade: *- :α, as well as ε rapid deploynin:.
rate and such fcatures α & bigh-capecity braike stit
pyrotechaic cabic cutiors.
13-14

. ξ : ξ
The minimum uaubio cable longth mwst be that
roquirod to rstrieve ε load which is 20 st beyond the
aft-mout part of the holicopter (the tail rotor cick, or,
in Se case of the tandan-roior belionpter, the aft
main rotor tip). The winch systam abould have suf-
ficieut capability to hocsi α fiat-bottomed packags of σ
weight oqual to the nusximum paylond up to the
foading ramp and into the cargo compartment. On
the assumptico that the package is co motil skids,
and the ramp is deployed on level ground, the uae of
match biocks and multiple purchaoe cable ar-
rangements is rocommended to schieve this naaxi-
mum losd cspability, since α winch with α straight-
anp
tively large. The coafficients of friction shewa in
Table 13-1 should be used whon determining winch
capscity.
The soloction of α powor vource for the cargo wincih
shouid takc into considuraige the fact that Joodiag
operations usualiy are conducted vith the helicopta:
main power plant siut down, and power is suppliod
ground electrical power cart. Controi of the winch
should be by : roncta peodea: co: trol witb : cabls
long enough to permit the winct oporator to move
throughout the cargo compartnent α..I rammp.
Table 13-2 lists the varioue tiodown devices wibich
may be usod to socure cargo within Arsay beli-
copiers. Flour tiadown fttings must be compatible
with all thosc devions. Provisions must be made for
the siorage of an appropriate number of tbeve de-
vicas within the cargo comepartmont.
134.2 EXTERNAL CAXGO
Ti onco-nove? practice of curying cargo loedk ex-
-acs u! Arpedo amprood u paredo purpuep σ
bai oporet.ona. In many caee, the vargo is siag-
TADLE I3Y. COEFFICIENTS OF FRICTION
MATERIAL. COEFFNCIENT OF FRICTKIN
RCOF SKIOS CA ANTI-SKIO FLOORING 0.50
ROW OR WCAN
WOOD ON ME TAL 0.20 ±0 02.50
NE.TAL ON METAL 0.15 то 0.30
TRACKED VEHICLES 0.00
GREASCO SURF.CES C.00 TO 0.96
WHEELED VENICLES α.α3