Af.
AMGP70W
with the shoots a oenter, lateral subsequent misalign-
the other side, moet ca
quite complicated if an An analysis of is shimmy
of the is made incorporate attempt a11 variables; to
calculates the that approach however. a aimplified
proven to occur has starts speed at which shimmy
landing below ki. This speeids acceptable for 100
3), stability critria (Rd.~ method uses Moreland's
in nondi- a the eqiusions of shimmy which express
major aircraft contaning all of the mensional form
bee computer program has digital A parameters.
and unstable the stable regions developed to indicate
configuration. given aircraft any for
of shimmy, several design reduce the possibility To
practices based upon experimental work should be
with nose geaup: obseerved for helicopters equipped
(Fig. 12-2) should less thin b,.- The trail distance 1.
of tire diameter. 50% the oir greater than 8%
strut 2. Dampers mounted the wheels or the at at
are acceptable. For wheels, a damper connecting dual
of the two wheels is preferred because the amount
play in the syttem thereby is minimized. Dual wheels
are preferred for dynamic loads above 20,000 lb.
requires more usually distance trail shcort 3. A
ar &`i------ Ie., *~I - deeiethen a
oc acmiarticulsting with a long trail arm Sear is Imting
probanly lighter than a gear with a short trail arm.
4. Hydraulic viscous damping is preferred. Fric-
tion damping is not desirable duc to the large vani-
ations, encountered,
5. Torqt arms should be stiff as possible. The ui
apex should a be knuckle design to avoid any offset in
the line of action of the two members. The use of steel
instead of aluminum should be considered,
cofigratonsthetan In te cse f siglerotr
rotor provides excellent c',ntrol o( the helicopter
duiv&ini isndiiidi-, and therefore, uakeorfM, iaxiing;
steering of the tail wheel is not necessary. A aO~or
device should providrA, be controllable the by pilot,
to lock the tail wheel in trail positucn a during land-
maS and takeoff to assist in directional control. No
gea helicopters are inherently stable and, therefore,
tail gears usually require no nose and lock. Both
should cortain or cams other centering devices to
maintain the gear in a trail position prior to landing.
not required for As a antiskid devices are viuue,
vehicles with landing speeds below 100 kt.
12-1,12.4 Brakes
Braking system requirements are governed the by
specification, and by anid MIL- MIL-fl-8584 system
helicopters wec W-501 3. Current cargo and crane
re- the energy-absorption because systems IV Type
system. This quirtment~s dictate a power-operated
12-8

either of pedals. sot must operate from type of system
without of a lO-deg slope must perink parking and
application of external power.
to braking usually its sufficient Main wheel pear
hell howeve, each deceleration; the specified achieve
to determine analyzed indvidually be copter must
brake adequacy.
pilot handle accessible to both parking brake A
biake with must actuatc a parking and copilot
helicopter on the to hold the pressure sufficient
off. the power with slcpe speOcified
in prior constraints is dictated by Sizing of brakes
The Military Specification. additicni to the applicabkc
previoul~y selected, defines size of the wheel and tire.
the volume available for the brake assembly, and
number of the of the friction and the area pads hence
cylinders. actuating
detail designt are Master cylinder sizing brake and
dependent upon the brake pressure and actuation
of response, the volume requirement, thc speed
linkage ratio to the pedals, and the available pressure
supply.
GEAR SKID 12-1.2
22A Ger-
The major advantages of skid gear are lightweight,
- low cost, and simplicity.. The initial cost of skid gear
is leew than that of a cvrnventional gear. oleo The~g
elimination of wheels, tires, brakes, and braking
system results in reduced oleo maintenaicr. The die-
advantages the need support arc wheels or dollits for
to handle the helicoptea on the a limited ground,
running-landing capability, the inability to perform
running takeoffs and to thereby inrreace payload
of increased lift, and the high rate with the resultant
wear of the bottom of the skids.
Skid gear is ustd on many lightweight helicopters
where the normal landing energy stored in tubuler ii
or rectangular spring members. For harder landings.
the landing energy is akiorbcd perumtnent by de-
formation of the spring members.
The- deflections of' the static skid usu~al!') gear arc
fsi ls hntoco losa.Teercec
gear is approximately until 50% the load in the i~pring
member exceeds the elastic limit. When the load is
abethyilsrnthotemmeteef.
ciency of the skid gear is comparable to that of the
conventional gear.
Ground clearances of structure, control surfaces,
less than noi:x~ 6 or external items for skid gpar shall
in position. a in. witi skids flat on the ground static
Wheels Groud..bsadiI 12-1.1.2
of whiels are dependent Location and number