AMCP 706.202
received signal from the antenna to the receiver.
should such as RG-214/U, loss cable, be
could loss where exmessvc runs lengthy for
developed, and cables are being Newer
cables, even if not promising. Commercial
proved Army qualification by tests, should
posed the by contiavtor their if use assists in
taining efficiency and low cost. AMCP 706-125
2) should be consulted for further information
lines. transmission
communication equip- for Antenna considerations
8.5. in π~ar. presented are ment
8-2.2 MICROPHONE-HEADSET
of the microphone must be helicopter Α
civiiian experience and Armny type; cancolling
is the microphone α dynamic that shown
microphonc, ambicnt noisecancellinS the In fective.
the microphone of sides both enters noise acoustic
same the at and intensity equal wv~θ
teeth, lips, face, the Unfortunately, lationship.
the upon effect α major have helmet protective
of α case tie In characteristics. cancelling
it level, noise ambient acoustic α high with
spectral α power conduct to nccmary
the microphone in love! noise thc of mmaurement
then and microphones standard us'ng area,
noise unwanted attenuates that filter α velkp
the through to psi, α voice permnitting
amp~lifier.
typie, α dynami~ic be of must nlso heuadset The
minim'um high-level have it that able dm~ι' is highly
lagge tic should muffs @er Yhe distortion.
providing whilc noise χ~tr&ncous exclude
long flikhts. on comfort
as part if included bt microephonte'heedscet. I
foregoing the possess should also hel~met,
istics.
~
HLO~fl3.
svl4sT... MIKE Λ
~limited ___
MIKE
Classical Figurt of Blcvls 841. WfAgwm
Sy.ε Commssancatkom
8-4

Low- 6 16 F6866666 O
considered
1 occur. 4 3 NAV NAy NAV 6 2
appear
yet ap-0
pro- be
2 VOL.ME α
main- 1
(Ref. ICs N
on
IESLCTKOFF9
HOT MIKE
Iuercomnuulcadoin Typical 2 Ω.. Flgs:
Box Solocter
8-2.3 INTERCOMMUNICATION SELECTOR
Box noise
inter- into an plugs microphonc-heidset The has
α have will which (ICS), box selector communication o.φ mos~τ
switches. selector headset and microphone of number
con- integral volume an has unit zekoctor the Us5ually,
is unit typical Α switch. microphone "hot" α and troi re- phase
Fig. in shown and 8-2.
crew each swvlocts for unit control The ICS noise -
is seclected, hieAdset the which for the radio member helicopter -
radio. emergency the and functions, intercom the bse may
is. un- noa anjally function radio cien~criccy (Th.; density
disabled.) Often,. be cannot which audio switched
control ICS the through routed are ns fun-.ti other de- to \
Sear landinig warning, failure, as engline such box while -
audio other and warning, brake-ν rotor warning, microphoute
main is the box control ICS ',he signals. warning
ar- is It usually crew. flight the for bwitchboard ι: ead
craw α that so configuration standard in α ranged
to aircraft of one type from transfer can member to enough
confusion. another without optrator
ready member crew each that imperative It is ka.-ve
sta- crew Cockpit and unit. control ICS his to access ihe of
Λ 123-2. π~ar. in described is ar-rangement tion characwe-
8-3 NAVIGATIONAL EQUIPMENT
GENE~RAL 0-3.1
are: tcquipment of navigational categories The.
maneuvering Terminal 1.
navigation route Ea
ANTENNA2.
Interdiction
been has aircraft of usefulness the VFR Becauxe
heli- future operations, crimbat in recent
opera- include all-weather will icquirements copter
systems. augrficntation stability with tion
anternais the The location of installation and
are dircussed navigational equipment the for required
8-5. in par. defincKA furthtr
other along with discussed, arc displays Navigation
10. in Chapter flight instruments,