progressively skidding lea tendency and
signed with adequate radial clearance for
operation without need for auxiliary positive
features. Thermal growth due to fail-safe operation
bearins angular contact duplex ball can be
by moduted providing adequate internal
initially (minimv'μ contact anglt of say 30 deg)
initially preloaded, by mounting the bearings
to-back (DB). back---back mounting allows
gvow ra:ially net rings to and axially
generating additional prelad, ι.ε., radial
tends to increase pveload while axial growth
preload.
4.2-2.2 Life Anulysis
fatiguc of for calculation techniques Modern
pioneeri.ι are upon the based bearings
engineering and statistical analyses of Refs.
87. Certain empirical constants in these analyzes
determined by evaluation of experimental
hence, it may be argued that the effects of
physical phenomena not specifically addressed
this is α valid argument, it follows that the bearing
in an application that dilers substantialiy from
laboratory conditions could vary significantly
the calculated value. Fortunately, the
model used modification (α of the function originally
general to sufficiently in Ref. 88) is presented
as modes of faiiurc interpretation meaningful
burnout, filament bulb 1ght mortality. as human
Conscquently, tooth spalling. gear wear-initiated
can experience service field test and valid
modification factors life to add satirfactorilv
distribution Weibull to the corrected dispersions
prognosis. bearing lIfe
Limitations ".42.2,.7.1 Asutptioos and
The basic AFBMA life calculations commonly
used in the U.Σ. based are upon Refs. 86 and
hence contain certain key assumptions
limitations:
I. The failure mode is subsurface-initiated
or spalling. Cracks beqin at microscopic weak
most probably at the depth of maximum subsurface
orthogonal shear beneath the Hertzian contact.
developed solution, therefore, is based upon
volume theory. However, it has bw.ν indicated
4-2.1.1) that α preponderance of the failures
analysis of helicopter bearings at oveih,- were
/
face initiated, Σ"•γ is 2. Hertzialn stre•σ theory based upon :.he
coprcssive deformation of contacting bodies
co~ν",4-55

AMCP 706-202
de- effects are hence ignores any possible of gross elastic
fail-safe changes of shape in thew bodies.
coefficents driving 3. Empirical used in the AFBMA for-
in mulas reflect the characteristics of air-melt AISI
accom- 52100 steel of Rc6O nominal hardness operating in
clearance medium-viscosity mineral oils at relatively low
or, if temperatures and moderate speeds and loads.
basik- 4. Any effects speed upon life caused by of rota-
the in- tion are omitted.
without Σ. The calculated lives are based upen the number
in 10% of the growth of cyclic stressings to produce failure
relaxes population of α statistically significant sample size.
sources 6. Bearings manufactured by different arc
assumed to belong to the same statistical population.
to Life Approach Factor Modification 4-2.2.2.2.2 life of
Prediction theoretical
useful and Π6 Α method η&σ been advanced (Ref. 89) to ac-
were count for many variables common in modern design
aata; applic.tions. An adjusted life is calculated as the LA
certain product of adjustment, environmental and/or design
in the calculated factors, and the AFBMA life Lio.
life
the - hr (4-53) LA DEFGHLo,
from
statistical
where permit
steel actual (reflecting factor material - diverse Δ
dimensio~nless and purity), chemistry or
for CEVM factor (accounting processing - E
practices, thcrrno- melting other and be used
grain forging working, mechanical metal with
clc- and absolute and orientation, flow for
dimension- hardness), differential ment
less
Α lubrication factor (considerineg lubricant F
EHD film formation and relative surface
roughnesses), dimensionless
87 and Γ speed - effects (considering centrifugal ac-
and celeration and slip conditions), dimen-
sionless
pitting - misalignment factor (applicable to crown- H
points, ed and cylindrical roller bearings), di.
mensionless
The It is not uncommon in helicopter bearing design for
stressed the value of the factors multiplicative group of to
(par. vary between 0.3 and 18 due to the range of con-
in the ditions and requirements encountered. Digital corn-
stir- puter programs often are used to define factors Γ. F.
and while factors Δ and are assigned values H; F
local whether the life calculation is by simple AFBMA
and equation solution or by computer analysis.