fatigue failures occurred that initially were attrib-
uted to dynan.ic tooth loading. However, in-
vestigation revealed that thc fatigue nuclcasions
usually wcre locs sd in the bottoms of the tooth roots
or on thc insidcs of the back-up rim. The crack
propagation gencrally was radial rather than across
the tooth base, resulting in the loss of α large seg-
ment of the gear ratber sban α singic looth. Such
failures are typical of resonant conditions in which
the tooth meshing froquency or one of its harmonics
coincides with α particular natural vibration mode of
the gear.
Lightweight gear designs fos helicopter usc often
will exhibit various typcs of vibratory modes, such as
with radial nodes or circular nodes, singiy and in
combinations. Typical vibration modes for α thin
web spur gear with integral zhaft arc given in Ref.
103. Generally. the mode of concern is that involving
radial nodes that put the gear rim into axial wave-
form vibration. The lower orders (say. up to the fifth
diametral mode) are more likely to involve higher
amplitudes and, bence, higher oscillatory bending
stresses. However, relative resonant response ampli-
tudas for constans forcing input intensity at various
diecrete resonant Irequencies vary enormousiy with
gear blank configurations. One gear biank μ.ly
respond mcet to & tbird diametral mode frequency
while another to the fifth. The flange, web, and hub
design. all influence this relationship as well as the
ratio of higher order resonant frequencies to the fun-
danental. The resonant frequencies are best dc-
termined by experimental bench test techniques using
mechanical shaker. scoustical siren, or electro-
magnetically by an irduction coil mounted very ncar
ihe rim surface. Excelicn: visual determination of
resonant response may be sccomplished vith sand
pattern techniques if she gear web is of suitable con-
ficuration. in otber instances, podal and antinoda!
the risa ar:σ web surfaces with α lightly hand hcid soft
sieed rux:. Audible detact. on is also sufficiently precise
for resonast froqucacy identification, although α
microphune feodback coupled with α radially op-
peesd isput from the exciter into an oscilloscope is
requised ta prod.cz Lissajou pziterns necessery to
distiaguish beiveen fuadamental and cvcrione
responses. Magnetic sensors may be used for the
foodbact phasing signal with cqual casc.
Whea rusonance vibration amaplitudes are sui-
ficient to produce significant siress Ieveis, the most
practical quantitative evalzetion can be made by zl-
tacbing strain gagas to sppropriete antinode regions
of the rim aad wub. Tbe higker cnergs bevel resonance

AMCP 706-202
frequencics readily may be identified. In many in-
stances, designs will exhibit very low vibration duc to
the favorsble mass and stiffness configurations of the
fiange, web, and hub, and thercfore will not produce
α detectable strain gage output. Considerable input
energy may be required for α realistic determination.
Although actual operation in the transmission is the
final arbiter the acoustical siren generally will pro-
duce sufficient input to get the job done.
Audible detection also is sufficiently precise, al-
though α microphone feedback couplcd with ortho-
gonal axis input from the exciter into as. oscilloscope
is required to produce Lissajou patterns in order to
distinguish betwcen fundamental and overtonc
responses. The observed standing waves are the
product of α forward and backward traveling (with
respect to rotational velocity) waveset. If the gear is
rotating at α given speed ω, two resonant frequencics
are obrerved for each static fundamental radial vibra-
tion mode:
Forward wave natural frequency
ff = Jo + ≈ω/2, Hz (4-64)
Barkvard wave natural irequency
Jf = So - μ/2, Hz (4-65)
whcre
= static resonant frequency, Hz
λ =number of radial nodes
ω * rotational apood, Hz
Α graphic presentation of the phenomenon is con-
tained in Fig. 4-34. The fundamental radial node
static resonent frequencies are designated on the
ordinate by the number of their radial nodes. The ab-
scisse is rotational specd : relative to normal opera-
ting speed *. The inclined liae represents the gear
tooti meuhing frequency for α 41-tooth pinion
driving at α normal speed of 20.000 rpm. Note that
the forcing function represented by the pinion tooth
mesh intercepus the forward traveling 8 node vi-
bration near ground idle spced, the backward wave
from the 10 sode at about 83% speed, the forwardi 10
node wave at ncar normal operating speed, and θ=
backward 12 node wave at overapeed. The 8. 10. and
12 node vibrations are all potoniatiy hazsrdous.
Even if it were damorstrated that tie cyclic stresses
were below the material enduranes limit. ob-
joctionable acoustical encrgy radiation would vccur
as thsec iatsroepts. Kesesige of the shape and sass of
the gear is not very practicable in this example
nevene sfiacts α maximumn change of 8% in resonant
froquency for α specific dasiga (Ref. 104).
469