in . ne pioce, folded around the leading odge and open
at the trailing odge, which is joinod when the spar and
ahell are joinod. Others are made in two pieccs, with
bordod joints at both the Icading and trailing edgcs.
The spar and shell are joined by brazing. for all-
metal bladas, or by adhosive bonding. for the Fiber-
gias sbells. Brazing is performed in dics in a brazing
furnace, with preasure in the spar to hold the joint in
intimnate coutact. Adhasive bonding of Fiberglas
shells mzy be accomplishod with heat and pressure in
a pair of dics. but the more common practice is to usc
a die only for the camber faocs of ths blade and to
apply pressure by vacuum bag o: autoclavc.
The asoembly of a spar-shell biadc aiso roquires thc
installation of lightweight filler mnaterial. Some filler
piocos are precast to shapc or cut from balsa wood or
boneycomb; theoe are installod as parta of the
assombly when the spur und sbcll are joined. Cast-in-
place filler also is usod; this is poured into the bladc
cavitics and cured after the spar-shell joint is madc.
Spars and abells of sdvsace composite matcrials, in
hand in tape form on mandrci. When the composite
matrix is reain, tbe maimriai is curod with the maadrel
as a dic and autoclave prossure, or with an outside die
and inflatable bladders inside. Wben the matrix is
mctal, the material is compactod and diffusion-
boadoi in matched metal dias.
With advancod composiics, selectod materials and
fiber cricntations can be usod in thc various layers of
the spar and shall. Numorically costrolled tape-
ment programs to facilitatc the efficiont caanufacture
of thesc new bladcs.
5-8.4.1 3 Quelity Cuntrel
The proviuction quality of a propeller bisde has a
considerabic afioct on allowabie stress levels, bocausc
fatigue streesas are critical. Thesufore, it is important
that biades be inspeciod carefully for maiorial quali-
ty, surface condition, snd — in tae caae of spar-sholl
-ppe ug 'sroçof poxeq Jo papuoq jo Aprenb — sopng
tion to verifying thoue attributes affecting strong:h,
inapection must insure thal tho blades are correct
dimcneiosally. Airfoil dimensigms are used to aasuce
that cach blade will produce its derigm thrust perior-
-tg qoq g meg anmjojed runpiagpu! ue sourss
practicaulc and upnecasary. Airfoil duaaensions of
individuai biados aleo are ceed to cincts sarody-
aamic balance aanong a sot of bdades.
lot of forgi a, including toneile ad chunical sests of Material qualicy is verifiod by certification of ench
-osd soed aor uo seeg sowapreq Aq pue 'aqun aqduss
eees affacting strangtin, such as coid rolting und

t t. *3, *
д
AMCP 706-202
shot-pecning, are subjectod to thorough process con-
machines and techniques involved, as well as poriodic
destructive examination of sample bladcs.
The surfacc condition of propeller blades should be
subjected to cureful visual scrutiny. In addition, spar-
to-shell joint qual ty is ausurod by process control and
by nondestructive testing tochniqucs such as x-ray.
ultrasonic scanning. and tap testing. These non-
destructive methods also assure the quality of the
blade filler material.
5-1l.4.3 Biade snd Propeiler Bulsxce
Propciler roughneez due to unbalance is caused pri-
marily by deviations from telerances in the threc
main propeller components: blades, hub assembly.
and spinner. The most important source of propeller
unbalance is the bladcs, because of thcir largs radius
and mass, and their serodynamic characteristics.
Four factors affect the amount of blade unbalance:
mas force, mass momest, aerodynamic forces, and
acrodynamic mument.
To obtain rcalistic cstimates of probable un-
balances for a paricuiar propeiier design, the efforis
of the various independent dimensiona! tokrances
must be evslustod statistically for cach of the three
major components and then combined statistically
for the overall propeller. Analytical techniques and
computer programs bave bocn developed for ce.
timating and asscssing unbalance for numerous pro-
peiler installations with good success. A discussion of
the variou . aspocts of propelier balance is giver: in
Ref. 56. A Iditional comuments appear in ANC-9.
In gercral, biade balance is achieved in manufac-
turing and axombly by tbe following stape:
1. Maas force uabslance is controllod by hori-
zontally balk xcing the biades againat a master biade
с
minimum tolerance of 0.10 in.-Ib.
2. Maas momunt unbalance is controlled by verti-
cally balancing tihe blades against y master biadc
wichin 0.0os in. times tbe blade weight with a
minimum tolerance of 0.20 in.-Jb (hili.-P-26366).
Tise vertical balance shouid be accozplisbed for two
orthogonal biade angular poaitioss. To aclicve mass
baieace, amall wights are addod, usual.y in the blade
roat region.
AoA no pn
inatalling the biadas wath their rcference stations
within 0.2 deg of cach other. In many inctallations,
however. adequate conirol cangot be achiewad
5-73