..∴
AMCP: 7U6-202
The basic typos of rotary reciprocating actuators
are vane and piston. Basically, the vanc actuator con-
sists of a cylindrical chamber, a stationary barrier, a
contral shaft with a fixed vanc, and end caps through
which the shaft projocts and which support the shaft-
and-vane assembly. Fluid energy on one side of the
vare produces an unbalancod force on the shaßt. The
shaft extension can protrudo from cither or both
asds, and has key-ways, splines, Or squared cnds sor
mochanical connection of the load. Vanc actuaturs
usually have one or two vancs, but may have threc or
moro. The arc of rotation for single-vant units is
about 280 dog: for double-vane units, about 100 deg.
Maximum arc varics with the size and const uction of
the unit. Besides the torque, there is a radial force on
the vane shaft, and this sidc load tends to deflect the
shaft. Thus, the output shaft must be large cnough to
withstand mcximum torque and side load withort
excessive deflection, and bearing areas must be large
enough to support thesc loads with minimum wear
and friction. Efficiency of single-vane units varics
bearings and bearing length-to-diameter ratio.
Dooble-vane units contain opposing vancs and op
posing stationary barriers. Fluid enters one compait-
ment from an external port and flows through inter-
nal passages to the opposi:e compariment. A force is
exerted on cach vane, and the force that tends to dis-
place the shaft is balanced transverscly. Because pure
torque is the only load on the shaft, cfficiency of the
double-vane unit is high; torque output is double: that
of a singlo-vane unit of comparable dimensions.
Vaue-type actustors are available in a varicty of stan-
dard sizes and mountings. with torque outputs
ranging from 3 1b-in. at 50 ps1 to more ihan 700.000
Ib-in. at 3000 pai.
Piaton actuators are available in several types. In a
helical apline sctuator, fluid is applied to one side of
the piston which is kept from rotating by guide rods.
The actuutor can be stopped at any poini in its
suroke. The helix angle on the shaft end piston is self-
locking. preventing rotation of the actuator under
external torque loads. Scaling is by ring seais around
the piston, the fluid rods, and the helical screw. Stan-
dard urits are available for a ivide range of torque
outputs and pressures. The arc of rotation can be
larger than 360 deg. Adjustable cushions art
available to reduce shock at each end of the stroke.
А variation of this type of astuator uses two
pistons in the same cylinder. The shaft has a right-
ha id belix on haif of its length and a lef'- hand helix
on the other half. Fluid is introduced into the area
between the pistons and causcs linear movement of
the pistons, thereby imparting rotary motion to the
9-44

conter shaft. The pistor-rack actuator may have a
cylincier witi. two pistons, escit integral with a rack,
or two cylinsors with four pistons. in each casc, the
racks angage a pinion in the xenter of the cylinder
and, as the pistoas move che racks, the pinion is ro-
tated. Equal torquc thus is produced in cact direction
of rotation. Pistens usually are soulod by standard O-
ring soais. Units are avaiiabic with bigis torque
ratinags and for preauros to 300c psi.
9.3.2.9.2 Brake Valres
Pneumatic brake vaives provide a means of
supplying operating pressure to hclisopter wheci
brakes. The pressure applied to the pedais (or hand
lecer. depending upon valve design) deliver* à
regulatod, proportionate pressure to the valve outlet
port, thus allowing air to flow to the brakes.
Relcasing of the brake podal (or handic) vents the
preusurized air on the brakes. Podal or handle sravel
is proportional to brake valve outiet pressure, i.c., to
the pressurc applicd to the whesl brakc. The design of
brake valves should feature minimumn hysteresis char-
acteristics. For incrcasod relcase response, rapid-
exhaust vaiver are located betwecn the brake valves
and thc brakes.
9-3.2.9.3 Pneematic Fuoes
A fusc is uscd to protect a pneumatic system while
permitting full, efficient operation of companents in
ihe remainder of the system. Essentially. thc fuse
operatcs on a rate of flow that is sensed by a pressure
drop through the fusc itscif. Once closed, the fuse
rescts automatically as scon as the pressure differ-
preesed air.
9-3.2.9.4 Quick-disconnects
Quick-disconnects provide easy. instant coupling
and uncoupling of pneumatic systems and system
use greatly facilitates aircraft overhauls and service
replacements. in order to mect varying require-
ments, two types of quick-disconnects are available: a
lever type and a rotating type.
9-3.3 PNEUMATIC SYSTEM INSTALLATION
AND QUALIFICATION
Pneumatic systems are classified into types and
classes as follows:
1. Types:
a. Type A. Airborne compressor-charged
system, in whicn system air pressure is maintained by
a compressor mounted in the helicopter