AMCP 706-202
uaed to carry fcavy thrust loaós in one diroction, with
the boarings shuring the load oqually. However,
tandem mounting doxs not romove all of the internel
loosonens from the bearings, and, thareiore, perguits
some shaft float.
16-3.2.3 Thrust Ball Bearinge
Thrust bail bearings are available for applicatiors
in which pure thrust loads are to be supported at
moderats spoods. These bearings afford a vory high
thrust capacity, b:t provide no radial support for the
shaft. Thrust bail bearings are quite lin:ited in speod
capability due to spinning in the ball-to-race con-
tacts, and they also are sensitive to misalignment.
Becuuse even small amcunts of misalignment can
rosult in hig,h internal contact stresscs, a high degree
of respendicularity must be maintained bezwoen the
bearing rrces and the axis of the shaft.
Thrust ball bearings are made for applications
roquiring thrust-supporting capatilitics in one or two
directions. The various configurations available are
е sbown in such catalogs of manufscturers as Ref. 7.
16 3.3 ROLLER BEARINGS
Rolier boarings are used most frequently in appli-
cations roquiring high load capacity for a given space
envelopc. The various types of rolier bcarings include
cylindrica!, needle, spherical, and tapered roller con-
figurations. Needie rolker bearings have 8 rolling
dement length-to-diamcter ratio significantly greater
than that encountered in typical cylindrical roller
bearings. Spherical roller bearings use concave or
coavex rolling clements in order to permit operation
with misalignment betwoen th:e shaft and the housing.
Both spherical and tapered rolier bearings can sup-
spoods are lower than thoec of cylindrical rolier
bearings because of sliding between the rollers and
the guiding ribs.
16-3.3.1 Cytiwdrical Roller Beariaga
Cylindrical roller bearings are used typically in
applications in which a purely radial load is to be
supportod. In most cases, the roilers are crowned in
order to prevent end loading and to compensate for
amali amounts of misalignment.
Cylindrical roller bearings are manufactured in 8
sianderd grads designatod RBEC-1 for most com-
inercial applications. Precision-gradc RBEC-5
baerings are used for critical helicopter applications
wbere bigh-spood capabilitics, and very procisc loca-
tion and aligament of the shaf are essential.
Cylindrical roller bearings are constructed with the
16-10

rollers running betwoen two flangas on either the in-
ner or the outor ring. In some casas, ono or two ad-
ditional shoulders are usod in ordor to limit axial mo-
tion and to allow the boaring to support light thrust
loads. Such configurations are known as locating
types of bearings and are designatod as ono- or two-
directional, Jepending upon whather one or two
shoulders are usod. One-diroctional locsting bearings
have separable rings, and incorporate a single
shoulder to prevent axial movement of the shaft in
one direction. Two-directional locating bearings usc
two race shoulder to provide shaft location and light
thrust load capability in both axial directions.
Locating roller bearings have design capabilitics
similar to those for non-locating bcarings, except for
a slightly lower limiting speod due to sliding of the
roller ends on the face of the shoulder.
Cylinárical roll r bearings afford the highest apoed
capabilities of all roller bearing types. In utilizing
thesc capabilitie', the designer must be aware of the
special problems «ssociated with high-speed opera-
tion. Operation at very high speeds, usuailly while
carrying rather low radial loads, can result in roller
skidding. contributing. in turn, to carly bearing
failure. In order to prevent skidding. several toch-
I iques can be employed. The simplest and most
reliable mcthod is to insure that a radial load suf-
ficient to maintain rolling contact always is present.
Becausc this is not always possible, particularly when
the only load imposed upon the shaft is torque,
spocialized design features — such as reduced inier-
nal clearance, out-of-round outer races, or the incor-
poration of two or more prcloaded hollow rollers —
have been introduced to heip maintain rolling contact
and a constant retainer spoed. However, bearings in-
corporaiing such features usuaiiy require extensive
development and testing.
With high-speed roller bearings, in which the
retainer is guided by a shoulder on the outer ring, the
radial growth of the retainer due to incrcased
terfcrence between the retainer and the outer ring. the
initial retainer clcarance must be large enough to in-
sure a running clearance at the maximuin operating
temperature of the bearing.
16-3.3.2 Needke Bearings
Neodle bcarings con.prise a spocial class of cylin-
drical roller bearings in which the rolling elenents are
long in relation to thcir diameter. Such a dasign has
the advantage of a very high load capacity for a given
radial section. Ncodie bearings are manufactured in
both full-complement and retainer typas. The full-
complement typcs provide high raJial capacity since