AMCP 706-202
broad- Typical amplitude. and time in or constant
power switches, motors, are EMI of generators band
circuits, pulse ground currents, lines, distribution
capacitors, and transistors,
oscil- an by produced is interference Narrowband
fre- the at only energy contains that circuit latory
bar- output The multiples. its oscillation or of quency
its internal or transmitter communication α of monics
Spurious EMi. narrowband of typical arc oscillators
α wide cover can or receiver α transmitter of outputs
of characteristics the exhibit and frequencies of range
is distribution energy the however, noise; broadband
sharply. defined
Inherent interferences unique to the helicopter can
of members rotating as the such sources from arise
rotors. tail and main and shaft, drive engine, the
radio/ helicopters, medium-sized and small- In
α by seriously hampered is frequently operation radar
creates which modulation rotor called phenomenon
some and ADF, VOR/ILS, in especially problems
inter- modulation Rotor systems. communication
the of reflection chopping or the to due arise ferences
and the speed rotor The rotor. the main by signal RF
point α givcn pass to nurmber combine blades τ rotor of
sig- RF the arriving of the modulation in resulting
(amplitudes, perturbat,,ns distortion These nal
interference up set can harmonics) or cancellations,
error, system noise, create navigation that patterns
become caa interference The oscillation. needle and
critical when integrated flight control systems are
helicopter oscillation. in resulting used,
of ei- variety in α helicopters use of The expanding
can effects interference These considered previously.
prievent, α particular or even seriously, downgrade
arise probles interference Some capability. mission
precipi- potentials, field charging atmospheric from
(elec- phenomenon discharge corona charging, tation
α around field electrical by α strong accelerated trons
(fric- charging potentials or triboelectric point), sharp
con- material of dissimilar α result as charging tional
tact)-
noticeable the most probably these sources, Of
by the produced will be qualification for EMC effect
members rotating of helicopter charging tniboelectric
rotors). and shaft, drive transmission, (engine,
7-6.5 INTERFERENCE SUPPRESSION
into four be divided may α subsystem within EMI
categories:
emi3sions interference signal Device 1.
signels such to susceptibility Device 2.
(solid signals of interfering path 3. Transmission
wave) or
7-22

pre- signal ι.ε., coincidence, Inierference time 4.
susceptibility. of receptor timea during sentation
number the and subsystem, of the The complexity
sources, interfcrence internal the of magnitude and
ap- design protoctive of choice the determine
appwoaches reduction interference to Basic proachcs.
include: subsystem or helicopter tne within
corn- ι. interference-free inherently of Dftiagn
ponents
Equipment isolation 2.
routing Cable 3.
suppression Source 4.
and suppression. containment point 5. Signal
Compoeats interferencC-free 7-.5.1
limits imposed the meet electrical systems All shall
as such spec-ification, equipment the applicable by
are primarily speci!ι'zations MIL-STD-461. These
to susceptibility with and radiation, with concerned
and broadband or conduction-propagated radiation-
these with Compliance interference. narrowband
state-of-the-art maximum specifications represents
are specifications the However, control. interference
not inic.ι-eren:ce do soive necemsariiV ihe and oroad
. border- individual If systems. in all arising problems
elimi- not are sources interference component line
not does limits specification with compliance nated,
the wben develop not will problems EMC that insure
specification limits. from degrades system total
4-6.5.2 Equipment Isolation and Cable Routing
positioniing by oolved arr. problems EMC Many
ntoruigcbesshthth) eetrncqup
Lccation interfereacc. minimal radiate up or pick
in pre- parameters importan'.τ two are orientation and
__ ._ .. ι:ola.ι.
and oricn- location antenna distance. with attnuates
EMI. or reduce can prevent tetion
effective, always is not of cables shielding Simple
In such signals. of interfering magnitude to the due
is necessary. cables of equipment isolation instances,
be may cables low-leve, from high-level of Scparation
allow- space and design upon depending required,
rn- may cabIls power and primary wires ances. Signal
at α terminating when even routing separate quirm
connector. single
or location equipmea.τ of is α result interference If
be investi- should areas following the routing, cable
gated:
I. from run separately wiring control and Power
wires signal-carrying
from separately run wir-σ frequency 2. Audio
frequency of higher wirec
of crossing the right-angle for madt 3. Provisions
cables circuit sensitive