AMCP 706-202
loads are applied. The orifice area then docreases
further on in the stroke and more energy is aboorbod
at lowar load levels. However, this type of strut is
more complex and the implications of increased
weight and cost relative to a strut with fixed orifice
must be weighed.
The desigi: of air-oil struts shall be in accordance
with MIL-L-8552. with two exceotione:
1. A scal other thar the standard O-ring to avoid
spiral failure
2. A spocial scraper ring that is more effective in
keeping out dirt than the specified MS 33675 scraper
rings. The latter have no means of preventing dirt
from entering the ztrut past the outsic's of the scraper,
which fits looscly.
The first step in the design of the oleo strut is to
determine the size of the piston. The static load and
static preasure define the arsa, and consequently the
diamoter, of ti.e piston rod. Tbe static pressure is
determinea from an isothermal air compression-
stroke cuive developed for the 3trut. A pressure of
3000 pai can be assumed at the compreusod position,
with provision in the strut deaign ior a maximum of
4000 pai to ailow for growth (incrcased gross weight)
from the static to the compressed position commonly
is applied during preliminary deaign, with the vaiue
selected being dependent upon the landing load fac-
tor. Thus, the static air preasure uaed in the deter-
mination of piston diemeter will te in the range of
1000 to 3250 pai.
To avoid full exiension of the gcar when thc heii-
copter is lightly loaded, the pressure in the extended
4G00 MAXIML'M STRU) GAON IHI
3000 COMPRESSED POSITION
NORMAL AIR CURVE
AIR PRESSURE, psi 2000
1000 POSITION STATIC
250 EXTENDED POSITION
0 0 25 50 66 83 100
STRUT STROKE,
Figure 12-4. Typical Istrerme: Shock Strut
Air Coumpcasdon Curve
12-6

position is sot at approximately 25% of the static
prosaure. The static position is sct betwoen 66 and
85% of the strut stroke, with 83% providirg smcothar
taxiing. As an example, for a strut with & total stroke
of 12 in., tho static position would be 10 in. (83% of
12 in.) from the fully extendod position. A typica?
shock struz compression curve is shown in Fig. 12-4.
When the static positions of the individual struts are
being seiectod, the overall landing gear configuration
also must be examined to assure that all applicable
ground clcaranoe requiroments, including flat tire
and fla. strut conditions, are mez.
As previoualy noted, the piston arca is dotermined
by the static load and the static premure. The wall
thickness of the piston rod is determined by the cri-
tical combination of bending moment and compres-
sion load. Of the ground loads spocified (pars. 4-5
gnd 4-6, AMCP 706-201) the braking conditions 0r
obstruction load condition probably will produce the
maximum valye of bending moment in the piston
rod, which occurs at the point that the piston enters
the lower beari.ng. Materials with ultimate tonsile
strength of 260,000 psi or greater should be con-
sidered for th- piston :od, subject to the approval of
the procuring activity (MIL-L-8552). The ratio of
piston rod diameier to wali ihickness siso musi be
examined to assure that the design is neither un-
neccusarily heavy nor impractically difficult (bencs
expensive) to manufacture. Should the wall thickncus.
as determined by the critical loading condition, pro-
duce an unacceptably beavy strut, the conditions
governing the static position should be re-cvaluatod.
There are two ways in which a shock normally is
mounted. cantilever and universal (Fig. 12-5). The
CANTILEVER ARTICULATING GEAR WITH
UNIVERSAL —MOUNTED STRUT
Figure 12-5. Centlever aad Ueirersal Strats