drive in types are employed splint Two basic
system design: face splines and concentric splines.
4-.2,3.1 Face Splins
are splines typically used to couple two shafts Face
or α shaft and α Sear. Flat-faced, tapered, V,
square form teeth may be milled, shaper cut, or
ground - dependin, upon material hardness and ac-
curacy requirements. The fabrication of high-quality,
;ou'ts interchangeable, concentric with uniform tooth
contact is relatively difficult & exl.π":vc; conse-
quently, they ate seldom used in drive systems.
The most common face spline is the CurvicO
system (Ref. 92). Curvic* splines are easily fabri-
and cated with pressure angles between 10 30 deg deg,
although the higher value is predominant. Most de-
sign deficiencies result from inadequate localization
ctnter of tooth contact relative to the tooth or from
inadequate clamping means to rcsist the tooth sepa-
rating forces and the bending moments on θ: joint,
ORegistered Trademark - Gleason Works
4-2.2.3.2 Coaceutdlc or Longitudinal Splints
This type ofjoint has its α δ-beating- surtfub es-
axes sentially parallel to the rotational of the coupled
components that comprise the external and internal
mating elements. This discussion is limited to the
commonly used involute tooth form. although other
* types are occasionally used.
involute The spline may be manufactured by any
involute gear production method, in addition
methods not well to full-depth, η'Sh-strength buited
gear tooth forms. Depepding upon the limitations
imposed by production volume and precision,
produced volute splines be by millins. shaDing. may
shear cutting, broaching, cylindrical thread rolling.
rack cutting, shaving; by rolling, bobbing, and form
or profile-generating grinding. Relatively trouble-free
applications are limited to misalignments of 0.001 in.-
/in. and are either clamped or floating. Operating
misalignment of the axes of the mating parts of 0.25
deg or greater under load requires the use of flexible
couplings (par. 4-3.2.1). It is very difficult to obtain
satisfactory wear life with floating splines operating
with misalignm.nt.
4-2.3.3 Properties of Splins
Involute splines are designated as major-diameter
or sidefit, depending upon the controlling
mensional features. Minor-diain.Ater-fit splines
should be avoided in all but special applications (such
ex- as with α weaker internal member) due to the
cessive stress concentration caused by the sharp
*- cxttraid tooth-root fillet radius on the member.
4-53

motion. relative are to prevent clamped Splines
of major-diameter Light interference fit dimensioning
or side fit splines may be employed to assist in at- ρ;
taining secure clamping. When radial loads domi-
nate the joint design, adjacent mating cylindrical
or bores and shoulders with light press fits frequently
are used to complement the spline; successful ap-
plication requires close control of concentricity
between joint elements.
Floating spline joints primarily are used to ac-
commodate axial motion. Diametral looseness and
backlash must be sufficient to provide clearance un-
der operating conditions. The choiw between major-
diameter and side fit control normally is predicated
upon concentricity and balance requirements. Major-
diameter control is preferable for precision ap-
plications where rotational speeds or alignment are
side critical. While fit splints of 20 deg or greater
pressure angles provide self-centering under torque
loads, their looseness may permit excessive com-
ponent imbalance and eccentric operation under no-
load, high-speed operation.
Conventional involute splines may offer ap-
Α safe design value axial force for oil-lubricatcd Α 1
spline may be taken as:
O/Dr (4-54) Α/ OA - lb
where
lb-in. Q - torque,
to pitch diameter, in. Dp -
Reduction in slip for= may be achieved by use of
special lubricants, friction-reducing tooth coatings,
in- platings (silver, etc.) and treatments; with ball splines;
by ,.η .. Or itroducti .. ρ
(par. 4-3.2.1). Nylon (Ref. 93) and epoxy-bonded
molybdenum disulfide coatings are often effective.
Floating spline joints also are used to provide α
slight accommodation for radial, axial, and angular
these conditiots. misalignment. Under operating
fretting and galling wear modes may prove trouble-
sonic. Their occurrence is difficult to predict, and de-
termination of secondary effects and solutions fre-
quently must await design development testing.
Depending upon the severity of the problem and the
design restrictions, the following solutions have
found widespread use individually or in combination:
α I. Increased hardness and accuracy (generally
di- matter of gear tooth grinding precision)
2. Shot peenring of onc or both members (relatively
sind high intensities surfacc texture modification are
desired)
3. Use of dissimilar materials, types of heat treat-
ment, and hurdnesses