airrrame liaspections. Of the material during temoval
when deleatod Also, soundprooflng efforts often are
or torn ciI-soked mateirits art removed and never
ri~eplcod,
The uae of elastomeric isolation mounting devices
hanger bearing supports is highly at the gearbox and
effective in rnduc'ang structural noise. Airborne noise
housinp or clintisating any should by be minimized
through use of proper wall thickness, case resonance
shape, gear or internal or bearing quill attachmcint
methods. While is virtually impossibl* to calculate it
these conditions with suffkienrt accuracy in the design
they are itlatively stage, measured easly during ini-
tial component testing, and corrective redesign then
or can undertaken. be Modifications in the shape in-
volute pr ofiles so zs to change drastically the funda-
mental and harmonic noise content have been in-
vestigated analytizally (Ref. However, the slight 23).
variation in profile requite to achieve theoretical im-
provements was boyond tLn. judged p~resent rltinu-
facturing state of the art Soni't methods for ap-
proximate analytical prediction of resonant per-
* for relatively simple structural housing formance
* :ha~ L~ dvaniMd RC.24 an
It is not certain that the elimination of all interac-
tin& vibratory and resor..rit behavior in the various
gear meshes entirely beneficia; Is i.c., some sacrifice
in the efficiency of the lower (boundaty speed lubri-
cation regime) meshes may result. effects of axial The
lubrication upon reduction of tooth-meshing the fric-
tion is reported Ref. 25. int
Although the engineering field of gearbox noise
generation is imprecise yet, there as exists con-
can of practical knowledge that be siderable general
benefit to the designer. For example, it is known that
hnigh contact ratio gearing and finer pitch sizes pro.
duce. ess noise than their opposite counterparts.
Similarly, helical gears quieter then ame ttraight
spurs; spiral bevel are quieter ctraight than gear
or Zerol gpars because bevel of their greater inherent
contact raitios reduced dynamic increments or waste
loads, and increased smoothness operation. of
In addition, increased tooth backlash and gear
clearance can to maintain help subsonic air ejection
velocities fromt blgh-sprtd meshing teeth (Ref. 26).
Viscous films between tAtionary bearing rings and
housingsi can provide suffikient to roduce vi- damping
bratlon and noise propagation. Coulomb or dry fric-
* tion have been successilul devices in damping reson-
in at modes Sea have high and webs, as hy- rims
staresis materialis clad or bonded to shafts and webs.
onthe
4-12.1.2 UdhIEfy
discussion of reliability A complete general con-
4-42

cepts AMCP is contained in Chapter 12, 706-201.
Thin paragraph, therefore, deals with specifics as re-
to trantsmission ccmponents lated mechanical power
the transmission system. of
Concept definitions and numerical values for
quantitative reliability indices generally are speciriod
in procurement documents and, with increasing frm
drive system in For transmission and quency, PIDS.
are two types indices: design there of
Values for I. such characteristics as mission relia-
bility, flight safety reliability, and system reliability
rot the entire helicopter (us.ually for a gi-een mission
and operational enviroanmcnt). Typical values and
methods of expression might respectively, be, to 0.90
for ont. hour 0.99 of misL,.ion time. one failure per 20.-
probability 0,80 0(N) flight hours, and to 0.70 per mis-
ion hour of no system failures requiring unscheduled
nainteniance. Because the reliability of the helicopter
is a composite of the reliabilities of individual the
subsystems, individual reliability levels must be as-
signed %s targets for the design effort. As an example,
assumei the Request for Picoposal (RFO) specified
values of and (one 6.98 failure 0.9999 per hr) 10,000
ur minkimiu and safivt criteria, respectively, The Ai- (
lowable apportionment for the drive system would be
dependent upon the complexity and type of heli-
copter, but typical values for this apportionment
could well and be 0.999 respectively. 0.9999.
Techniques for desigri to these requirements will be
addressed in par. 4-2.
2. values for suhsy,6tems and component~s for such
characteristics as reliability after storage and mean
time between removals (MTBR). Typical values are a
time betweenA degradation in mean maximum of 10%
failures (MTBF) after storage for six months in ap-
proved environment or containers and hr 1IS0 '
MTBR, including both scheduled and nonscheduled
removals. This type index is directly applicable f to .-
individual subsystems, including the transmission
and drive system. The MTBF values subject to the
maximum degradation 10% limit lite those specified
implicitly or explicitly in Item i.e.. the 1, 0.90 to 0.99
mission reliability carries the recirrocal meaning of a
to' hr MTBF, 10 the 100 one failure in 20,000 for hr
flight safety is statement 20,000 a hr MTORE, and of
the to probability 0. 70 0.80 of zero system fail urs per
hr implies to hr MTBF. # 3.3 5.0 The MTBF levels
corresponding to the drive subsytcm apportionment
.
in Item are hr I and 1000 (0.999) hir 10,000 (0.9999).
respectively. (
is important It that the designer understand that
MTBR arid MTBF criteria discussed previously ~
interrelate in a unique fashion with the subsystem
design reliability when a finite timne between over-