solid biades can buth gouge and dent the hollow soc-
tions. The dont causes an additional concettration of
sirows in the same aree as the gouge. Thorefore, tkc
ninisnum wall thicknous is dotormined not by gross
structural considorations but rather by the required
resiatance to FOD. Bocause impact velocitics are
greatest st the tip, thick walis are requirod there; from
the standpoints of contrifugal load and frequency
piacument, this is an undesirabie region for adaed
weight. The socond probßlan cf simple holiow blades
occurs at the seading and traiing edges, which form
the oniy shear load path between the thrust and
camber facee. Becuuse the faces interasct at a sharp
angle, the bend radius is smali. The resulting geomo-
tric streas concentration often is unsatisfactory, and
additional material must be adcec at the edges to in-
crease the radius and reduce the local strrss. This
addied material not only incrcases the weight, but also
reduces the biade natural frequencics, particularly in
Lorsion.
nngeqnn
struction, such as the ribbed soction sisown in F'g. 5-
45(C). Oue or more ribs are aodci to suppiy aú-
ditional shear Ic ad paths and to reducc deuting. The
exoct proportioning of sbeet and rib thicknees and
spacing along ihe iength of the blade is a combina-
(A) SOLID
(B) MONOCOQUE
(C) MODIFIED MONOCOQUE
(D) SPAR-SHELL
Figare S-is. Typical Slade Creas Sectiasc

AAICP 706-202
tion of analysis and expcrimentation. Once perfectod,
the resulting blade geoerally is much lighies than a
solid version. The primary structure, bowever, still is
cxposcd to FOD. and cracks causod by such damage
can propagate acroes the catire soction.
build what is in principle a modified monocoque sec-
tion in two piocas. Fig. 5-45(D) illustratcs tbe cross
soction of such a biede onstruction. In this ap-
proach, the contral tubular momber, or spar, is made
as a taperod-wall, varying-diamcier tube and thca is
flattenod and twistod to shape. Thc outer scrody-
namic contour or sbell theo is bondod to the spar.
This construction allows considarable design fiexi-
bility. The spar and sbell wall thicknceers can be
variod independently to achieve the required mass .
and siffoess distribution, and the spar position
within the shali can be varied as well. Additional
refinements, such as chordwisc wall thichneas vari-
aions in bot sbell and spar, aiso can be achieved.
Most imporiant, with the separotior of the scrody.
namic sbell and structural spar, different materials
may be considored for cach item. With the proper
choice of maierial, damage ieolation can b: achivved;
i.c., thc dffocts of srrvice inflictod damage can be
limitod to the shell, allowing adequate time for detec-
tion and repair.
A typiral spar-shell blade is shown in Fig. 5-46.
Pocause thc spur is formod froru a tube, the transi-
tion from the airfoil contour to the round retention
tinuous from retestion to tip. with no joints of any
sort, and the sboll ss bonded to the apai over the cn-
töre biade lengih. With the large joint area and the
continuows transfer of load from thc sbell to the spar.
the bonded joint is loader lightly. A fisier material
ofen is uaod in the cavitias of the blade. Tleis type of
bladc construction bas boen very sstiafactory. with
substantialiy Jower weight than solid bindos.
Thc use of hoilow blades to achieve thase im-
provements, howeuer, introducos s number of spocial
structural considarations in addition to the six major
aspects mentionnd previously. Those are:
1. Secondary structural sction in the transition
region betwven shark and sirfoil, wiberc kocai bend-
ing of the spas and übell walls can occur since the
groi bonding tende to straighten or deform the loagi-
tudinal profile of the walis.
2. Panel vibration of local areas of the spar or
shell, capecially if they are unsupported
3. Skear flow, fromn the inabrility of the muajor shoas
loads in a bollow blads to peas direcily acroes thc
binde thickncos. Issiesd, thacc loads msset follow tibs
structural material ar pund the cavitios.
5-71