AMCP 706-202
locity can be used as the primary jet for an ejector.
Stcondary air is taken from the APU compartment.
Also, the ducting is α substantial heat source and should be located to minimize effects on compart-
ment temperature.
If compartment ventilation must be limited due to
fire: hazards, high-temperature bellows can be used to
seal ducting. Also IR radiation suppression may be
needed for the APU exhaust. Compartment and duct
cooling methods used on the main engines will apply
equally hete and aro discussed in pars. 3-2.6 and 3-6.
3-8.2.4 APU Bleed Air Dwting
In the α case of bleed air type of APU, α collc(tor
arrangement will be integral with the unit. The APU
control valve can be mounted directly on the APU
bleed collector flangc. If installation ,pace limita-
tions cxist, or valve weight will overload the APU
flange. the valve may be line-mounted.
flexible Α bellows can be used to minimize flange
loads, thus accommodating vibration, thermal
'owth. and installation tolerances. Α quick-
disconnec' type of connection is desirable for main-
tainability. Attention must be paid to duct pressure
loads. APU model specification perfovmance is based
on pressure, flow. and temperature α' the APU bleed
collector flange.
3-8.2.5 Cooling
Surface temperature limits be specified will in the
model specification. During APU .)pcration, the
compartment cooling shall system compart- cool the
mcnt adequately. Temperature transients should not
exceed the limits specified in the model specification.
APU firewalls are identical to the main engine
requirements discussed in par. 3-2.4.
The reduction drive, accessories, and lubrication
onsiderable heat. sore at reprent υ.en. Pon .
be dissipated into compressor inlet air or into the
APU compaitment. An oil (to air) cooler may be
needed to maintain system oil temperatures within
acceptaole limits.
about 150 may reject bleed air APU Α typical small
Btu/μ:ν to the lubrication system at sea level pros-
surc 130'F. and An exhaust ejector could provide α
cooling airflow rate of about 5 lb/ min. Compartment
cooling is discussed further in par. 3-6.
3-4.3 APU SUBSYSTEMS
mrnasniach as APU) .ubsystems ai similar to those
previously discu•ad in this chapter for the main
only that discuss follow paragraphs the nigine(σ),
to the APU. peculiar characteristics those
3-8.3,1 Electrical Controla
APU elec•ricisi coatiols are categorized as se.
quencing. protectivc, and toad, or output, controls.
3.-18

Some components arc APU-rnounted othcrs and are
airframe-mounted. Electrical power to activate the
system may be provided by the aircraft system or by an APU-driven generator. APU controls shall be
qualified concurrently with qualification of the APU
in accordance with MIL-Π-8686.
Σ most δ anedAg σ
"ihe most advanced APU sequencing is done with
solid-state electrical equipment. Α speed signal is ob-
tained from the gearbox or power section by mcanm of α frequency signal from α magnetic pickup, ta-
chometer generator, output alternator, or mech-
anical spced switch. Α frequency-sensitive sequencer
then actuates relays slarting for and APU accclcra-
tion.
The start is initiated by α switch that actuates the
APU starting system, This may be electrical or hy-
draulic (par. 3-8.3.5). The APU will begin rotation
without fuel or ignition to provide α momentary air
purge of the air and gas passages. Fuel and ignition
subsystems must be actuated at the lowest possible
speed, perhaps 5% or below, to insure good starts at
both cold and hot extremes of ambient temperature.
Actuation can be accomplirhed by α fuel pressure
α switth, timc dclay relay, or speed signal. Some I
combustion systems require separate start and main
(or run) fuel systems. At 10-20% speed, the main fuel
valve will be opened. Α third speed point can be used
to turn off the starter. At approximately 90% speed.
start fuel and ignition will be turntA off. This signal,
with α time delay relay, also can arm the aircraft load
circuits. Α fifth sequencing 110% point at speed pro-
vides for protective shutdown.
38.3.:.2 Protective Controls
confine Protective controls arc required to mal-
functions to the APU and, thereby, to protr.τ the
helicopter.
Protective devices may include overspeed, exhaust
ovcrtcmpera- and compartment overtcmpcrature,
in the thermocouple sensor ture Α simple subsystems.
feeding the APU tailpipe, to solid-state circuit con-
trol (sequencer), provides APU overtemperature pro-
tection. Similarly. thermocouples within the com-
partment can signal the sequencer as fire protection.
Built-in test equipment should be used only to the
extent necessary to indicate an APU failure. In-
dicating shall lights be used for pilot advisory pur-
poses. Audio annunciators can be adapted for the
desired. if APsu
3--.3.1-3 Output Controls
The -1 elect-' load-control circuit usually is armed
by ed the 90% sequencing point and α time delay