AMCP 022(
is excellent low-frequency applications in where re-
sistance to moisture, Rlame, I" oil, many and and acids
~numerous alkainesis mporan
~ ~ ~scription 74.1.3 ,,.,
Fluorin~ated ethylene propylene (FEP) demon-
strates, excellent electrica: stability over α temperature
range of -65* to +230*C, suitable and is for ultra-
high-frequency applications,
74.1.1.4 Polychlorotrlfluonsethyliea
more commonly eolychloiotrifluoroethylcne,
advantages combines many of the known as KEL-F,
to abrasion, thus with α superior resistance of Teflon
enabingit o β use asa tin-alle inulaion
mechanical pro. covering or without any outer
continuous opera- material is rated for tection. This
tionthrughthetemeratre ang of-65 to
+15thog0tetmprtuerngCf-.*τ
+ 1500C.draulic
Polyliexamethylene-adipaisldc 7-8.1.1.5
exru is α readily adipamide Polyhexamethylene.
dabe plyiid, btte kownas υ is amiy nme
noylo.Bimid, υ poor dabof eamlectical betrkof ν ass bc~
nlon 11"uscof ts clafvel por elctrcal of
characteristics, it rarely is used as α primary in'
* asulation on wire. However, it makes an excellent out-
τ er coverings ω icn applied over vinyl insulation. Ex
truded nylon jackets are tough cnd resistant to &bra-
sion and oil, and have α tendency to increase the
temperature sawbility of the piimary insulation,
Teraflorathyeneequipment 7-8..1.
74.11.6 etrahaorcthyeeM
Tetrafluoroethylene (TFE), better known as
Teflon, is an excellent electrical balance ar~δ.
applications. TFE offers exceptional electrical,
chemcal an thrma proertes ot vaiablein ny
othe wie isultio maeria. TE isultio is
rate fo cotinousopertio at200C. ut rmais
feilatcygnctemperatures.
74.1.1.7 Dimediyl-slloxane Polymer
Better known as silicone rubber, dimethyl-siloxane
polymer is finding widespread application as α wire
insulation because of its good high-temperature char-
will flexibility. It acteristics and low-temperature
withstand 2000C continuously, and can withstand as
as for short 300"'C intervals. However, the much iii
presence of flame, silicone rubber will burn to non- α
conductive ash, which, if held in place, could function
as an emergency insulator. Its abrasion resistance is
*improved greatly the by addition of α saturated glass
braid. Unlike vinyls, polyethylene, and nylon, sili-
cone rubber is α therinosetting plastic.
* 7-28

74.1.2 Military Wire Spelfkcadioa
The Military Specifications for aimrcrft wire α--ε too
to cover in detail. However, α brief do-
of of the more typos some commonly used
of wire and of the specifications defining tham is
giver. to assist in selecting the specification that sats-
general fie& the requirements.
MIL-Ω-5086 covers PVC-insulated, single-
conductor hookup and interconnecting electrical
wires made with tin-coated or silver-coated con-
insulation of copper or copper alloy. PVC ductors
with outer in- used alone or in combination be may
is good general It α or protective materials. sulating
purpose wire, and is available in voltage ratings from
-55* rmpg of to α temperature and to V 600 3000
of this specification wire construction The + I 109C.
contains nylon jackets for increased mechanical
toughness and resistance to fuels, solvents, and hy-
fluids.
and multi- single-conductor covers MIL-C-7078
speci- in this wire basic The wire. shielded conductor
fication is MIL-Ω-508 and MIL-Ω-81381.
covers wifVe designed for MI1Λ-iW internal 1818 wiring of meters, panels, and electrical and electronic
equipment, and requires that such wins, have mini.
mum size and weight consistent with service require- 'ρ
merits. The temperature rating of wire included in
this specification ranges to 260*C, with potential
ratings of 250 ^,o 3000 V. This wire is primarily α
hookup wire, but it be uted for wiring elcetronic may
aircraft. the of areas protected in
IL-C-22759 covers fluorocarbon-insulated.
single-conductor electric wire made with tin-coated,
silver-coated, or nickel-coated conductors of copper
wires may be polytetrafiuoro~ethyloen, fluorinated
thyenepropylene (FEP), or polyvinylidene fluoride.
Thefluorocarbon may be used alone, on in corn-
bnaton ithother insulation materials. This wire is
available in temperature α range of 2000C to 2600C,
arnd vlaeratings of 600 to 1000 V.
MIL-Ω-7072 covers low-tension, insulated, single-
conductor, aluminum wire for aircraft electrical
power distribution Aluminum wire usually systems.
is used where an appreciable weight saving can be
re~alized.
MIL-Ω-81044 covers α variety of construction
suitable for airframe and electronic hook-up wire, in-
eluding flght, medium, heavy wall and insulation
thickness and tin- and silverpl'ted-copper con-
are ductors. These wires rated to 5Ω0 V over α
- 53 temperature range Of to +I150C. insula- The
tion consists of crosslinked polyvinylidene fluoride.
Improvvd thermal stability is realized through mole-