performance is unique to the four-point suspcosion.
Prof : analysis of this redundant structure roquires
consideration of both payload and Selioopter struc-
α q ge τ
11).
In the practical application of α four-poirt suspon-
ajon, it has bean found neceeary lo incorporate α joad
trimming system to sgualice forces in the four ce. bles.
Withoust auch α aystoes, fiaxing uf thc fsselage and the
payload in fight is tikely to losd some cablcs while
causirg otbers to go slack. An auxomatic takeup de-
vice dosigned to alleviate this problom is likely to be
Aerssoou eqAq sauodre pus rado
future bcticopicrs using four-point susponsions.
To determisse the location and capacity of the sus-
ρ egdr
muast have some kuowiodge of the type of loads to be
carriod. Refs. 9, 10, anc' 12 Iist, among chem, moat of
the Army equipmont aad vehicies wiich can be sling-
loadod. Weights and dimeasioas are provided. Army
aircraft are included in the listed joeds bacause of the
δ [α dg un
craft from othorwie inacctesibic forced lanciz:γ zites
13-4.2.1 Stik Loade
The ratod capacity of the extarna! load suspenion
sysiem is established by preliminary design and flight
tosts. All components of the suspension cysier
should be designod uniformly for this rated load. The
rated load muat be multiplicd by α limit flight load
factor of 2.5, with α apfety factor of 1.5 appliod to
give an ultimate deeign iond fsctor of 3.75. The at-
taching structure murt be capabie of sustaining this
tonsion load appliod in any direction within 30 deg of
wertikal. Relief :om the 30-deg requiroment can be
obtained if ι. : be chowa that, with the limit ficht
lcad appliad at some lcoser angle, thc limits of contro!
capability are reachod. If groun ) velhicic towing
agabilisy is desired, the suspension must be analyzod
for the ma: imum towirg forcc times the ultimate
safoty factos of 1.5, appliod at the extreme aftward
trwring angio, as estabiabod by preliminary design.
Maximum towing force will be detarminod by pitch
angie anc' control powar licnitg, whan the location of
the cobie attachmsat poiat is knowa.
13-4.2.2 Dymamic 3.onde
Α plbenosnenou knowe as vestical bouace can oc-
cur wiben & beticoptor is carrying an externa! loud suzs-
ponded frome α sting or α pendant. It is α divergen
vertical oscillation of tins airfraanc/curgo systom
cassod by remonance of the couplud airframe/cargo
1 (δ1) Aar-nd soo aq qua Asuondeg pmua
bration frequency of tibe balicopier. I'his is shown
13-18_

chenatically in Fig. 13-9.
Taie sins lifiod
reprocnt tibe funsda
the balicopier and the cargo sre trsutad as sigid
àedees, and tie supome atimg is sborava as α sprine
Tbe natural frequency
2 K(Ry + ML) Hz (13-3)
wbere
κ u/qs 'roquadons go sgas Suuce
ML - maas of axternel load, slg
Experisnce has showa that, wihan this natural
frequancy reaches close proximity to the I? maio
rotor frequency, verticei bounce will occu. The
lower praccical chrssbold of vutical bouace bas bos
definod as approximataly 0.6 timpes the 1Π frequcncy
(Raf. 9).
With presently ued uling matarials and typical
loed weights, vurtical bonncs lams bees ancoustered in
oon
tontialiy destructive divergont . TM
mildos cascs ueually are the reeuls cf enoseding the
Jower thresbold frequency with the combinetion of α
stiff sling and α reiativaly tigibt loedi. Tibe more suricus
divorgont caaas occur wben tho setaral frequsucy is
taken too close to the 1Π frsaguancy witin α anspandad
load weighing cloe to the campty weigian: of the beli-
copter.
1Π FORCING FUNCTION
HELICOPTER
MASS
K σ
SUSPENSION LOAD ISOLATOR
STIFFNESS DAMAING
LOAD
MASS
Flane 13-9. (Julicogte