in- elimipation of thermally applicatians, load *radial .........
Li
*duood radial preload, reduction of externally in-
duoed deformation load& (such as the pinch effect ofr
~pltnet * idior δ'etermsination and ball bearing Sears), of
angle are basically upon dia- contact depedent
metral clearance./
specific operating Α diametriu clearance must be/ //
maintained under all conditions. While radial load/
* j
~deflection contributes to needed clearances, it is ,
generally insufficitnt to compcrisate for bearing in-
- stallatioci, or fit-up, practices or thermal expansion 4
in Chhdges race diameter due to filt-up an:1 to I .
differential between inner and ~~temperature outer *
/
cylinder elastic from directly calculated be can rings V21
theo'v as presented in Ref. Whether or not an in.. 83.
'~ crews inner ring temperature in will tend to reduce
-- the raceway enlargement du. to initizl fit-up will ide- /
pend upon shaft temperature and heat flow con-/
- ditions. It is nut uncommon to find highly loaded
- angular contact bearings operating at moderate to
high speeds with the inner ring tcmi:erature 50-1004
F deq above the outer ring temnperature. Tolerances
sh'tts seieced ani ω!il have α for -ε-armigas hounig,qma
direct influ!:nce upon the success cleat-ance of com-
pensation. Tht: range of variations of bearing de-- --------
-- -- * flect'ons and lives in α given application and, there-
fore, the life scatter within α lot of ostensibly identi- Figure 4-29. Besaing Geomietry Change With
cal gearboxes, can be reduced greatly use by of Ring Expansion lane(
bearings of the higher precision and RBEC ABEC
classification. When high interference fit-up and outer, respectively). When α radial displacement of
clearance compensation arc required, there is α the iriner race Α(Δ,/2) occur; due to fit-up or
limiting practicable value for the ratio of ball therm-Al growth the , radial clearanct: and contact
diameter to radial cross-sectional thickness of the angle .Are reduced. the If inner ring is allowed to dis-
bearing. Ratios greater than 0.63 should ap~- be place until contact ball exists -mially with no load. α
proached with caution unless thcre is considerable ring thrust face ex- protrusion 6,. If α clariaped- results.
perience from which to draw. ring DR OF mounting with ar α tight housing fit is
of The successful design angular contact ball employed, the resulting compression produces an in-
bearings for use in stacked seti of two or more re- ternal preload and α comipansatin# in con- inctease
quires α knowledge of their elastic behavior. DB tact angle. This may eliminated be by manufacturing
(back-to-back; ι.ε., inner ring thrust faces opposed) each bearing with α thrust face intrusion equal to 6,..
and (face-to-face; ι.ε., inner ring thrust DF faces ad- The initial contact angle also should reduced be Π. by
jacent) configurations often are used to provide α approxiinazely 0) (#,, -
combination of thrust and ratdial load capability, therr If is α possibility for sizable thermal gradients
while DT (tandem) bearings generally are reserved and pieload, the DB cesultant mounting is preferred
for conditions where the thrust load is less than 40- to the mounting because the DF load per unit of ther-
of the radial 40%, load. mal expansion is considerably less with the DB
Fig. 4-29 reprtsnts single-row, α angular contact mounting. Firt. 4-30 presents α graphic explanation of
bearing. Whtn operating speeds are such that the this condition. The thermal growth of ξ compensates
centrifugal force on the balls is noi sig;aificant and the frtaofYinBapicioswletervses
ball-outer race loads are essentially equal to ball- true for OF The rcswaltant miountings. preloiad is an
Inner race loads, the line of contact is established exporeaniai by function of the relative Hertzian comn-
the centers of the race curvatuies. 6 In Fig. 4-29 the pression, N*
I,(innmr radii of the races are denoted and φ, and Load-sharing equalization of DT installation may
4-52