~
- -- -..........
SWASHPLATV
HOR'4 PITCH
-Although
/
- - -. -stress
Σ""certainties
I
/
SWASHPLATE
gRand
SFigere 6-12. Relatve Flich Rod Link End
forces α keyed washer against the turnbuckle,
attached to the washer with α cotter pin. The
nut/washer combination prevents turnbuckle motion
that would shorten the rod, and the lockwire
vents any rod extension. The relativa position of
rod ends is maintained by an internal slot
rangenent. Proper relative rod end position is
Vortail' in order to assure sod end clearance
the swas'π.ste and pitch horn loss (Fig. 6-12).
In addition to the rotation rriative to the stationary
controis, relative motion occurs within the
controls. The drive scissors has two horizontal
and one universal joint to accommodate the
and tilting motions of the swashplate. Pitch link
eiids have self-aligning bearings to accommodate
small angular changes between the swashplate
and the pitch horn caused by swashplate
Rod-end-to-lu% clearances provided be in α/sol
to prevent contact during these motions.
Lrjjjll dAMi.. - :ce 4ρ . Ω ... Ale
Although wear may reouce frictional moments,
tend to increase as α result of vibratory levels
;ooseness caused by wear, and bearing replacement
becomes necessary. Ease of bearing replacement
design consideration. Bearing replacement times
catablishcd TBO test programs and by Pervice hy
perience.
6-5.1.2 Test Remlts
pnosible it becomes progreses, design As detail
replace preliminary design estimates with
tative information gained during bench and
testing, Chapters 7, 8, and 9, AMCP 706-203, define
the procedures, tests, and demonstrations involved
demonstrating proof of wompliance with the
requirements. Chapter 4, AMCP 706.201,
the procedures for fatigue-life determination.
"discussion that follows defines methods for insuring
that bench and flight test data are sutfficiently
and complete to be used to best advantage in

- - <~-
--
706-202 AMCP
system. rotating 'he of design detail
6..!.,.1 Belch Tests LN
the fatigue analysis of the rotating con-
trols may thorough, the effects of be the complex
concentrations introduced locking features by
other un- connections, along with and threaded
preclude an acceptable such as fietting,
analytical fatigue strength determination. Therefore,
it is essential that bench testing to determine the
fatigue strength of components be coordinated
properly with other elements of the design prucess,
that the fatigue test requirements be based upon
Position representative or. at least, conservative - service .- and is conditions, The factors discussed in pars. 6-5.1.2.1.1
through 6-5.1.2.1.4 influence the estab!ishment of the
test requirements. Component fatigue test require-
pre- ments are discussed in dezail in par. 7-4, AMCP 706-
the 203.
ar-
im- 6-5.1.2.1.1 Test Loads
within Although it is desirable technically to duplicate all
flight loads un the bWach, θ'σ is not always an
economic or physical possibility. When flight loads
rotating will not be the basis for bench test loading, an analy-
pivots tical assessment must be made in order to determine
vertical which of the secondary loads is significant. In the
rod ro.ating conrol system rod end. frictional moments
the are usrally significant whi!ε centrifugal forces are in-
lugs significant.
motions. Steady loads in rotating control system com-
order ponents generally are low in comparison to the al-
ternating loads. Consequently, the load range is
thrwh zero.. thus increauin,, the relative motion of ,
the components and the possibility of fectting. Test loads
be programmed so as to insure loading the should
through zero.
is α the moment induced by rod end friction is If
are significant, must be included in the test. This secon- :1
cx- dary load must be phased properly with the primary
load. The effects of end moments may be induced
artifically by applying eccentric axial loads. Another
method to is use stiff bearings and to induce bearing
be it may ,ither test, In the test. motion during to
quInti- neceary to evalute temperature extremes.
flight
6-5-1.2.1.2 imstrnmentatilm
in The correlation of flight loads to beach test
design measurements is α primary consideration. Unless the
describes load distribution upon the part under test can be as.
The certained readily from applied loads, bench test speci-
mens should be instrument4δ and calibrated. Where
timeily α complex bending moment exists, α component
the should be instrumented with sufficient bridges to de-
6-21