1O1 INTRODUCTION
Thie chapter discunes the instrumentation neces-
sary in the helicopter cockpit to permit assignod mis-
sions to be performed. Because missions must be con-
* ducted at night, or ur.der IFR conditions, the roquire-
ments for lighting of the instrutrent and control pan-
els α2σ included.
The instruments required in order to provide the
pilot with the information neccssary to conduct as-
signed missions normaily should be grouped by func-
tional categorics. Includod are flight, pavigation, heli-
coptor subsystem, and weapon system instruments.
Instaliation roquirements for instrumentation are dis-
cussed soparately. Because of the bigh vibration en-
vironment in which helicopter inst.uments operate,
they shall be designod and qualified to survive curve
Μ (5Γ'σ) of method 514 of MIL-STD-810Β.
The definition of the total helicopter instrumen-
tation package shall include the arrangement of all
displays and controls in the cockpit. Aircrew station
instruments and displays shall bc located in ac-
cordance with MIL-STD-250, unless unique mission
requirements and supporting human factors en-
gincering (HFE) analysis dictate otherwisc. Displays
for other crew stations shall be arranged to provide
good control/display compatibility, along with mini-
mum workload and minimun opporturity for
human error. The most satisfactory method of as-
suring that thcse goals are achieved is by α systematic
HFE analysis which shouid bc accomplished as esrly
in the design phasc as possible. It is discussed in more
detail in par. 13-3, AMCP 706-201. Formal mock-up
review and evaluation are discussed in Chapter 5.
AMCP 706-203. The formal function of the aircraft
mock-up is not limited to the evaluation of the in-
strument subsystem.
10-2 INSTRUMENTATION LIGHTING
REQUIREMENTS
10-2.1 GENERAL
The lighting concepts in use today vary from rod to
white in the color spectrum, and from direct lighting
to diffused indirect lighting techniques. Α number of
solid-state, light-emitting instruments recently have
boon developed, and thesc may be appropriate for usc
in helicopter cockpits. Such app'ications have used
cicctroluminescent (EL) lighting. liquid crystals, and
light-emitting diodes (LED).

€, . 3. *
AMCP 726-202
CHAPTER 10
INSTRUMENTATION SUBSYSTEM DESIGN
The lighting concept shall consider the total cock-
pit instrumentation requiremeata rather than in-
dividual nceds. Tho nocessity to consider all reguiro-
ments cannot bc overemphasized. Also, brcausc the
airframe deveioper usually procures cockpit in-
strumentatio: from many different sources, he musi
recognize his role as the cockpit lighing integrator
carly in the de:ail design process or the resulting
cockpit lighting will suffer from problems of varying
colors, imbalance, and unevennass cven though all
vendors ars designing to the same requirements. Con-
trol of cockpit glare and reflections aiso must be ad-
dressod by the airframe developer.
Except for the primary instrument lighting, the
cockpit lighting for all helicopters shall be designed in
accordance with the applicablc provisions of MIL-Λ.-
6503. Integrally lighted instruments having α white
lighting syotemn shall be designod according to MIL-
Λ-27160. MIL-Λ-25467 shall br used if operetor re-
quiramenis diciaic ihe use of red iignting. Aji
switches, radio controls, auxiliary controls, and cir-
plate, edgc-lighted panels, as specified in MIL-Π-7788
and MIL-Λ-81774 for red lighting or MIL-Π-83335
for white lighting. The secondary instrument pane!
lighting system shall provide α minimum of ι0 ft-
candles of either red or white illumination on the sur-
face of the main instrument panel.
10-2.2 LIGHTING INTENSITY CONTROL
Unless Ctherwise specified by the procuring ac-
tivity. the instrumenis shall be grouped on con-
tinuously variable lighting intensity controls
follows:
1. Side-by-side:
α. Pilot'σ basic flight and navigation displays on
main instrument panel
6. Co-pilot'σ besic flight and -avigation dis-
plays on main instrument panel
χ. Propulsion and other subsystem dispiays on
main instrument pancl
δ. Center console
χ. Overhesd console
φ. Secondary panel lighting
2. Tandem:
α. Pilot'σ basic flight and navigation displays on
main instrument panel
β. Pilot'σ propulsion and other subsystem dis-
plays on main instrument panel
10-1