of the propeller, the detrimental effects ef propelier
rougbness can be minimized. The importance of pro-
pelier baiance and bigher order excitation to aireraßτ
design and its integration with the overali aircraft dy-
namic system, which determines the damping and
transmissibilisy of thesc excitation loads to the air-
fraune.
58.3 PROPELLER HUBS, ACTUATORS, AND
CONTROLS
The design methods described in this paragraph
relaie primarily to the propeilers of one tnanufec.
turer. In these propellers, pitch change actußion is
hydraulic, bus many of the design aspects apply to
aimost asy configuration. The discussion is limited in
scope inasmuch as propeller design, development,
and manufacture usually are performed under sub-
contract, or u:der separate prime contract, and pro-
vided as Governmens-furnished equipment (GFE).
5-8.3.1 Propeller Barrel and Blad: Retentiotes
The shape of the propaller basre! is determineu by
ihe biaoss. Α spiit, or two-piect, barrcl is ased for
high power propclcrs with solid aluminum blades; α
one-piece barrel with α single integral blade retention
race is used for low power propellers with soli: alu-
minum blades; α on:-piece barrel witf, multipie inte-
gral rac:σ is used fer propelleis whose biades are
made with α steel core and α Fiberglas shell. The last
type gunerally is used nor helicopter installation and is
the τ/pe that is discus:sd.
The barrel assembly cousists o: the barrel, biade
retention balls, seals, and clampr. 3 he barrel itself is α
one-piece, vacuum-melte δ stecl forging icorpos-
ting the besting race tor biade retention. The tafi-
shaft of ihe Jarrel extends into the gearcase and is
driven directly through α splined joint. Th:ε tailshaft
is supported cn two radial roiler barings — front
aud rear -- se that psopeller momen*σ aro reacted
disctly into the gearcust iousing. Propeller thrust
loads are reacted through an angular coniast becring
at the front of the tailshaft.
5-8.3.1.1 Banrel Loading
The following loads sre considered when designing
α propeller barrel:
1. Centrifugal force. Blade centrifugal force is
transmitted to the retention, barrel arm, aud tront
and rear rings, where it is reacted clsstically witnin
the barre!. For purposes of analysis, the barre! is con-
sidered to contain α front and σ rear structural ring.
2. Steady bending moment. Steady bending ino-
ment is due to aerodynamic loading on the blade, or

AMCP 705-202
to the blads being offset from α sadial linc. The mo-
ment is transmitied from the blade to the retention,
to the basrel arm, to the front aud rear rings, and into
the tailshaft. The inplarc comp:nent is reacted by the
spined joint, and the out-of-plaie component is
reacted elastically within the barrel.
3. Propeller thrust. Thrust is transmitted from
the blade to the retention, to the Siadc arm, to che
front and rear rings, and to che tailshaft where it is
reacted ty the tailehaft thrust bearing.
4. Propelles torque. Torquc is transmitted from
the blade through the retention to the blade arms and
into the tailshaft, where it is rcacted through the drive
spline.
5. 1Π-aerodynamic bending moment. The inplane
component of 1F-vibratory loading is transmitted
from the blade to the retention, to the barrel arm, and
into thc front and rear rings. There, because of the
unsymmetrical load phasing among tt.ε blades, is is
reacted clastically within ihe barrel. Tne out-of-plane
comnponent contributes to α combinect bending sno-
ment on the tai!st aft, reacted by front and rear rudial
bearings.
6. 1Π-aerodynamic side force. This force is trans-
mitted like 1Π cut-of-plane moment end is reactec by
the tailshaft radial bearings.
7. Higher-order vibratory loads. Moments and
forces at higher orders (2Π. 3Π, 4Π, etc.) combine in
various patierns depending upon the load phasing
among the biudrs. Accoiding to theis patterris, these
liads may be reacted elasticaily withis the bsrrel or
transmitted to the tailshsft bearings and resctes as α
bending moment or α forc-und-aft ur side force. They
also combine in α vibratory torque.
8. Gyroscopic moment. Bending moment ftom
gyrescopic action affects the Sarrel like 1Π-aerody-
namic moment.
9. Fropeller effcctive weight. The side force from
propeller weight, multiplied dy the aircran vertical
load facic.ρ, affects the barrel like IP-areodynamic
side for:χ.
10. Bearing pressi.τ loads. The tailshaft bearings
are pressfit onto the tuslsheft and irapose α compres-
sive load locally.
11. Axial preioac. Tensile load is imposed on the
tailsinaft by axial prelouding of the shaft bearing
agsinst α shaft shouldei.
12. Blade tovi: ting moment. Α combination or cen-
trifugal, frictional, and aerodynamic effects, pro-
δ.ccs α twisting moment eround the blade pitch
change axis. This is tranzferred indirectly to the
barre: as α couple between the biade retentior anc the
pitch change actuaior.
5-65