AMCP 706-202
ilrrnine that distribution. The location and type of in-
strumentation sAdl he the same as is employed in the
flight load survey.
-
6-5.112.1- Quantity sad Selection of Sedmens
A minimum of six specimens of each component is
- - required for definition of an curve. Where S-N
tolerance ;s a significant factor, specimens should be
selected from those at the adverse end of the RADIAL TANGENTIAL I - tolerance band. Dimensional tolerances of critical BENDING BRIDGES •' - ENDING BRIDGES
parts generally are tightly controlled; therefore,
special selection on the basis of dimensions usually is
not required. However, selectivity on the basis of
more highly variable quantities, such as rod end fric- 614 u Drive Scissors
tion, is required.
6-5.1.2.1.4 Interpretathon of Data 6-.1.2.21 Required Imstrmenmatiou
If all significant secondary loads are accounted for Pitch link axial load and drive scissors bending mno-
loads in primary are the of rotation the p!ane nent in and endurance curve an testing, during bench S.N
meuued. be must and system, the rotating control primary of the a functioi, as be established can limit
pitch are measurement requiring loads Secondary be based must limit endurance The load. alternating
least At bending. radial drive scissor and bending link to ac- so as data of test statistical reduction a upon
de- in order to am required two bending bridges further reduction cases, a for scatter. In some count
order ly-Ity.i --- t termnine the distribution of each of the . moments. f........ L- -L count for a secondary effect not included in the Typical instrumentation of a pitch link and a drive original test program. The preparation of an scissors S-N is shown in Figs. 6-13 and 6-14. As a rule,
curve from fatigue test data for a limited nunlbcr of each of the pitch link• ts instrumented with a tension
gage in order to determine whether or not there are specimens is described in par. 4-1l, AMCP 706&201.
any differ:nces between the loads from the in-
blades. dividual Flight Tests 6-5.12.2
The characteristics of the alternating loading on 6-5,1.2.2.2 Flight Coadid-t
fatigue-critical components are detemniried by a flight Flight loads be obtained for all mission pro- shall
load survey. A statistically significant data sample file conditions at the most adverse altitude(d) and
should be obtained for each flight condition represen, helicopter configuration(s) within the anticipated
tative of helicopter usage, i.e., for each condition operating regime (see par. 8-2. AMCP 706-203).
,within he mission profile. "e requirements ior a Loads in t~ie rotating control system generally are
flight load survey are described in detail in par. 8-2, noncritical in unstalied flight. They do, hower,
AMCP 706-203. react to the onset of moment stall and, therefore,
usually establish the structural envelope for stalled
conditions. Consequently, as a minimnm, control
loads should be measured at the conditions most con-
ducive to stall. These are:
I. Maximum gross weight
BENDING IDGE Most extreme TENIN2. CG
A- AXIAL TENSION 3. Maximum altitude
Minimum rpm 4.
5. High load factor.
6-5.2 NONROTATING SYSTEM
The location of push rod& and cables must be de-
rwmined early in the duign of a helicopter, prior to
Ithe selection and location of other large equipment,
so that it will not be necemsry to route the control
F! re 6-13. Iarmemr Pitch LUsk sytem #round this equipment.
6-22