Wben spar-sincil cosutsncion is uavd, with the spar
as the major loz-sarrying nucndti cod α surround-
ing shall os α dificsent materist. ths spar is pvotocted
from erosion and inspact dunege hy the shell. Inter-
nal surfscas of the apar cvuaa bo proceutont, Ihowever.
Olaas cloth or fibes-szinforord piaviis sasterielo can
be usod for the scrodyasnic shel ant borae: to the
spar with sdheaives. Tbe alastis and mochazical prop-
ertics of the shell cas be iailorod by seluctos oricnta-
tion of thc lay-up.
Hollow titanium load-carrying spers are being
developod, using SAl-4V alloy. Because of tte
exccilent corrosion rosistanoe of titenium allovs in
γ.peral, no corronioa protextion is requirod. An air-
foil euvelope adhcuiveiy bonaid to ibe spar provides
both erocion and impact iansage protexion. Thace-
fore so proeeciive platings thai can degrede the
futigue siraagih o. titanium aeed be considered in this
typr of consiruction.
Σ-I44.2 Canpaaiar Masenrine
Glacs fidero in rasin mstsiaes, citber filensect-
wound os in choib lay-apa, have bean ueod widcky for
te various sirvcaunes. Olais colt: in an cgay mnati. ke
ddtn wih maxal suns. Akbcagi txa: iay-upe do
bo auhibi bigh strerg laix. thcy are froc froaa conre-
con and are retasimaly Fesenaitise to the etfaccs of ds-
paet damage. Assqusie guceoctinnn frons lista pertiie
erosion can be proviied by & naixal shestA tuvoled
adbuively to the lonidng erig: and znieaging oner
partions of tbe face turti carvõer sidos.
Bcvoa sod cartwas fihsnstts in ae: qpany mriris
ad bocon. in cs dariamns athag mniio &ie wilt de libe
develogenwrse: stng. .. Togakas with Fibaagtas, tkna
δ ct π tg
aestichy wolinl aaig ef ren waterisk fot sa
coguo cs ses-ereil biutt rigucinren.
ilee tigbiy dircatirdnd propertian of fibsous coms-
paihu au ahe taas bois pransicing nod troubicsoenc.
Thsy cranon be caucidaid es cinspe sutatinstes for
irccieiic nagteiais. Tta draganr Bouna take advaa-
trgpe. do sunac ss groosid. of te dircticeal prop-
oa cd v Cotgosiios Sotao ts groet pios in
ssiciznckisad gtniggi. amd eciasas are rcdeccond if idee
cauctar. Nitg Gary matlsicirectieai kain. Maxi-
mbiag surune aftzány df cazza reqri.ν
Cap. ths reinserosannn da aririen α ut pergrticest
ay υ o st
loude. Thir taguinve daaioel kaucmage af tnat
.
Wi anat mewin cotogt, tsn nemieniercicn
in ε liatle anaies bovuar ot the oaratirsi; &ad
o . Τ -

R8CP 708-202
lom is fintbing satisfactory ochniquos for fabricating
individual crmponeats frocu ibe tapas. Brazing and
diffusion bonding aue two procascs with great poiez-
tial that pomares the capability of being developed
into hughiy roprodecible and economica! manufac-
turing Froocsscs. Dramatic increasos in streagth-to-
weight and stiffenss-to-weight ratios over eithes stizl
or titanium are ponubie with the new sivancud cu:ζ-
posites.
When loading is escentially unidirectional with the
reinforcing fibers and the matrix material is noi
highly stresed, an epoxy matrix appaars preferable
bccausc of its lighter wcight. However, α maetal matrix
offers higher sirength and stiffoess, where uoused.
Abo, the allowable strergih and dezign modulas of
-nateriel with an opoxy catrix nonualily muut β: sd.
justed downward to allow for moisture absorptiv:ν ir
service and for the grudual modulas docrease tundits
continuous cyclic stressing.
58.4.4.3 F8arr Nlokcsial
Rigid uceihane fosm materiale with α desusity is the
range af §-12 lb/φ cusrentily aue wacd as 8he sime.
tusnt φüikar ia ligistwroigebt biscias. Thr Eoaay maiesiner
os pa cgy γ
σ tenir batv: si ase of tbe pou-irpiwe tye,
blowsai vith aC,. Sbcvgh aninotropic in vatang the:
iarisis Onudine ow thenmal coaductivity acad κ
sisengii-σ-wrigi. ratios wità adequate mu.kalin:
reaitinnce, rxoadbrui adiosion, and satisfactory tene-
paature sissitéty. Of particular imporiance is Slade
fabcicuions is EPe sbility of thcec fosnas to bs isstailoc
in plere in spite ot complua cavity configuration.
5.4Α.4 Streartaa Atauins
Icalified eoosy-Bared adbrsinss sre the ranteriabs
wonl fensay as boh fr ts siris Fibe
Fiu-*einfnsagt Blahe aholis usd for tuc hoscding aant
in Fibg-al λ
iata. Τ iN be ve Ar-
vido he huat daiunce as ge' asios foc adtuuine boaas-
ing. Fur propnibrs bladc braisg wplantioaa, Wta:
atires ar staoil in sagzentad film Siwne. Iue tbin
fea, procaing ι: sirpdifint, bosd thickease is geo
Cicxr agwy: ko Caze riage is cati
id, tiniy cun nay ece of rie:
in achienae, anad α tigin doed-co rying coqidey τ
proviaicd.
5-8.Σ FAOEZA.EE DLA4. FATGAI: 3FVR Σ4,Σ πAΟΦEMEK DLAIW. FATECU: WVRS
Prageshe cgans ι as cegd ao thua vi-
Bsowy air'sane ε mi δ: ozii' raagt nf τ
garta. Roo et σ iparanan ol guges sra
aonal ingiy to ε sa af , rya-
poinz juaar badacvor is ancog lan tanes chalatak