AMCP 70&,202
surface at the level of mayimum oithogonal shear
stress, and classical theory has been dtvclopcd about
these conditions. However, rtcent studizs establish
that the shear stresses tend to bc located nearer to the
surface. even in the presenc of very s small magni-
uadces of slip ( cf.48). The traction stresses imposed
sliding by can raise the surfac shear stresses to
within 40% of the maximum Hertzian stress (Ref. 49).
These conditions lead to surface initiation of pitting
or cracking that ultimately msull in the gross pitting
or spalling failures ohserved in most failed mechani-
cal comp5iients. For example, it has been established
that the vast majoriqy of pitting (spalling) failures in
UH-! and CH-47 helicopter gearboxes are surface-
initiated (ReF. 46).
Secondary 4-2.1.2 Failure Modes
that modes all those are modes failure Secondary
arc not classified as primary. By definition secondary
failure modes do not contribute directly to corn-
to greatly they contribute MTBR; however, Fonent
the cost of overhaul, and in some instances they limit
....... .. r .. k *; .... o..----, of ..... f .:.i L...-
failure. primary
Secondary failure modes are grouped into three
categories, each with a different design avoidance
technique.
Failures 4-2.1.2.1 Overload
failure the due to are overloaded that Components
mem- carrying load series connected or of a parallel
short a in failure secondary in result frequently bet
time. Tandem thrust bearings or multiple planet or
epicyclic gear trains are typical parallel lond-path
configurations. Such components limit the pro-
gression rate of a primary failure by an automatic
deflection or from increased load reduction resulting
corn- of !he failing primary %ear material removal
secondary load-carrying designs, the ponent. In such
members should be analyzed under full power to in-
Such continued operation. life for safe sure adequate
analy,,es should show a minimum life of 100 hr.
Series-connected secondary failures are typified by
transfer of damage from one gear member to another
in a train arrangement or by the upstream overload
* of a component duc to an bdvanced downstream
rolling element bearing such as a "jammed" failure
with advanced retainer or ball fractures. The static
yield strength of the primary power path corn-
ponents (gears, shafts, bearings, couplings, etc.) must
be sufficient to withstand the maximum red.line
to load required transient the incremental plus power
fracture and break clear the rclati,.ely frangible pri-
mary failed component.
S~4-34

-
Debris-caused 4-2.1.2.2 Failure
Debris from a spalled tooth or bearing often enters
another gcar mesh or bearing and results in suf-
fi,:ient denting, embossing, or brinelling to initiate a
secondary failure after relatively few cyclic stressings.
White the da mage incurred in fears and cylindrical
roller bearings is less severe than in ball bearings (due
to the preferential debris entrapment of conformal
contact bodies), the rate of replacement of sccondari-
ly damaged parts at overhaul has considerable cost
impact (Ref. 46). Much potential damage can be
avoided by compartmentalized designs or use by of
shields or baffles to protect dynamic components by
deflecting and re-routing debris to catch-trap or
sump areas. The objective is localization of the
damage to the primary failure component.
lndjccd Failures Er.vironmnntally 4-2.1.2.3
Oxidation, stress corrosion, galvanic corrosion,
and aging or embrittlement fractures are examples of
to future significant could hecome that failures
MTBR data for helicopters with increased TBO in.-
tcrv,,.l Thtsp fuihire" r,&iitt from inaderitnte atten-
to control quality or production design tion during
materials, protective plating, or finish coatings. Con-
centric Enodes always should be used during plating
of tubular shaft mcmbcr.; to secure adequate pro-
tection of internal surfaces. Special attention must be
water to eliminate trappea drains to providing given
Ad- locations. seal and mast boss, stlid, at gearbox
in par. recommended are practices protective ditional
4-2.3.1.
4-2,2 DYNAMIC COMPONENTS
The dynamic components common to all drive
subsystems are:
wheels (gears) "oothcd poN cr transmission I.
of rolling or total velo- operate over a wide range that
slip high sliding or moderate to relatively cities with
velocities, under Hertzian stresses rarely exceeding
250.000 psi
2. Rolling element support members (bearimigs)
that operate at similar total velocities, lowe; slip velo-
cities, but generally higher Hei tzian stresses
3. Interconnecting members (shafts and couplingi)
that are splined, bolted, or welded together and to
and moments impose:d gears, with external forces
while rotating
4. Other miscellaneous elements such as shaft
seals, nuts, and locking devices.
Gears 4-2.2.1.
Helicopter gear design will be viewed from three
aspects: limitations, analysis, and the drawing or