0LIST OF SYMBOLS
8 = acccleration due to gravity, ft/sec'
= truc pressure altitude, ft
H = measured pressure altitude, ft
dH/dt = change in pressure altitude with time at
standard sca level conditions, ft/sec
H 'H - height difference, ft - altimeter position error correction, ft
Π = static pressurc, psi
Π - measured static pressure, psi
= total prexsure, psi
= measured pitot pressure. psi
Π - prezsure difference, psi
ρ irue atmospheric pressure, psi
= true irapact pressure, psi
= meusure impact pressure, psi
= true airspeed, maph
= calibrated airspeed, kt
ΔΥ. ст = mcasurcd calibrated airspced, kt = airspxed position error co:rection, kt
Psl - density at standard sea ievel conditions.
slug/ft'
9-1 INTRODICTION
Chapter 9. AMCP 706-201, describes the many
design trade-offs necessary in the final selectior of
secondary power subsystems. This chapter deals with
the detsil design of the hydraulic and pncumatic sub-
systems.
Hydraulic applicstions primarily include flight
control and usility functions. Flight control func-
tions include servo control of cyclic pitch, collective
pitch, and directional surfaces. Utility functions may
include part or all of the following:
1. Personnel/cargo hoists
2. Cargo hocks
3. Loading ramps
4. Doors
5. Landing gear
6. Gun turrets and drives
7. Rotor braking
8. Whcel braking and sicering
9. Enginc starting
10. Fluid dampers.
Pneumatic applicstions, while not as widely used in
helicopters as arc hydraulics, may include such func-

σ
ANCP 706-202
CHAPTER Σ
tions as engine starting, auxiliary utility systems, and
used for auxilisry power unit (APU) starting.
9.2 HYDRAULIC SUESYSTEMS
9-2.1 FLIGHT CONTROL POWER SYSTERIS
Hclicopter flight control systems may vary in com-
plexity from the relatively simple power boost system
with manual reversion to nultiredundant systems
where cach sysiem is designed to provide the full
powe: requireg tc operatc tne flight conirol func-
tions throughout the vchicle performance envelope.
The πultiredurJant systan is discussed in this
chapte: because it contains the basic elements of all
typcs of systems. This typr system shall be employed
unles ihe aircraf can be ccutrolled without boost. Α
schematic of α typical centra! hydraulic system is
presented in Fig. 9-1. The system shown contains its
own fluid power generation. fluid transmission, and
fluid supply components.
9-2.1.1 Central Hydraulic Systen:
Hydraulic power is gene.ated by varisble-dis-
placement pumps that aie compenssied for α
nominal system design pressure. Fluid mny be
supplied to the pumps from gas-pressurizal χ: buot-
strap reservoirs. The pumps are oriven by an
accessory gearbox, which, in turn, is drivas, by ihe
iransmission whcn ihr roior(σ) is teming and by an
VENT
ACCUMULATSR F ILTER
AND CACE RE SLPYOIR
BRANCHES FROM 3VSTEM SUPPL
TO SYSTEM PRESSURE TRAMSMITTER LCASE DRAIM
MAMIF OLD C OVE*504RD
SAUABER PuMP RE TU ALEEO AMDFILL
SRELRE VALVE TELTER
GROUNO TEST
Figure 9-1. Ceatral Hydraulic Sysiem
1-6