υ...
:the parabols and the involute and the point of ioad
application being the significant factors governing
the stroso. This form factor roduocs thc extreme fiber
tensilo strees with α compression component of the
tooth normal load. The load application point for the
spur gear factor Y always should be taken at the
calculated HPSTL and at the tip of the involute gear
profile for the helical goar factor Y.. Th
determination of the load puint for the bevel gcar fac
tor Y, is based upon certain assumptions concerning
ihe lond contact pattern gaomatry of the bevel tooth.
.The great difference between the assumptions of Ref.
64 and the updatod veraion of Ref. 56 accounts for 8
considerable change in the calculated stress. Use of
the modifiod Lewis forn factors in conjunction with
α stress concentration factor K, has provon to be as
accurate as any method known for involute gear
tooth stress calculation within the range of prayure
angles 14.5 deg < $< 25 dcg. However, α significant
degree of inaccuracy may occur outaide this range as
weill as for internai gear tooth forms and for
maximum fillet radius configurations.
The influence of the stress configuration duc to the
relative fillet radius and load point location is ac-
counied for in Kp which is derived fron ihe
photostress work of Dolan and Broghamer. It should
be noted that an effective K, is inciuded in the valnes
for Y, in Eq. 4-38.
The effective lrad apportionment due to load-
sl aring among τùτ sneshing teeth is accounted for in
σ σ :
the profile oontact ratio Α: < 2.0, az. = 1 beansc all
calculations Are hused upon the HFSTL. For 2.0 ≤ μ
≤ 3.0, * * ID when ite highest point of double
tooth contact is unca for δ'uermination of tir
geomeiric chage factor J. For heiical gears tie axial
or face conact rttio in adiluavnriy accounted for by
μ. = π. (0.93 3). cimensionless (4-39)
where
Z * frait vese lngih of iincofscuon, in. Π. * no:ing: srcuian pitch (helical grar). in.
For spiral bves geus, the modified comact ratio μ..
ωèich is α tvor-:ncan-squase (rszs) summation of the
effcrtivs protlc &nd face contact ratio, is usod. When
mn σ 2., μ = 1, but for μ. > 2.0
τ $$ δ'len (4-40)
The C. factor used ins Eq. Α-37 accounts for the
inclination of the load contaca line and is serived

MCP 706-202
from cantilovor plate bonding theory as presonted in
Ref. 65.
δ'lass (4-41)
wliere
- helical tooth losd linc inclination angle «
Tan- sinφ_tanv), deg
= normal preasure angle (hclice! gear), deg
-gear tooth spiral angie, deg.
The inertia factor K, in Eg. 4-38 accounts for α
reduced contact ratio. For μ.> 2.0, K, = 1.0 and for
μ. < 2.0, K, - 2.0/mo:
Eqs. 4-36 through 4-38 are of assistance in
evaluating the stress at the location assumed to be the
weak point of gear tecth. Test results often indicate.
howeve:, that feilures originate not in the fillet ncar
the involute flank, but rather deepcr toward the root
or higher on the tooth flank.
In the former case, the crack propagation is fre.
quently downward througl the rim rather than in an
ceptable failure mode because α large section of the
gear rather than α single tooth tends to break off.
Breakage high on the flank may result from the use
of too thin α tooth on α rigid base with less-than-
optimu:ν blend between the filiet and the flank. Α
low Sreak fecuently arises when the back-up rim is
too tar. : τ. is case the rim bending strers (duc to
tooth Ioa: σ τ-tnent about the rim neutral axis) can be
greaier ä;gs line assumed cantilever tooth bending
stress. Because rim curvature and web resistance
enter into τùis analysis, it is incorrect to consider only
ihe rim ihickness. However, for spur and iow-heiix-
angle helica! gears of about 40 teeth, α rim thickness
equal tc the tooth depth is generally accepted as ade-
quate. Slightiy fesser v-lues may be used for gears
with fe:ver teolkt (vhile greater values may be needed
for gcsrs witt, sior: than 40 teeth. The existence of
high thrust lends in helical or bevel gears will com-
plicate the tnalysis. Considerable web and rim rein-
fortemant is. necessa:υ to develop full tooth strength
po:enti:λ ir. nigh-thrust-component spiral bevel
pinions.
Fecause the preceding analyses are iwo-dimen-
sional, thay α:ε not suitable for definition of maxima
for σ trig.ial strcss field. Computerized methods of
Finite element analysis are expocted eventually to af-
fo.χ accurate solutions for these conditions
Additional precisjon of high-spced gearing ai:aly-
ses may !:ε χ Stained by inclusion of the hoop siress Σ,
in fhe gear rim due to the centrifugal acceieration. Α
4-39