uaod to gage bolt preloads, but must be replaced cach
time the bolt or nut is reinstalled.
16-2.3 NONTHREADED FASTENERS
16-2.3.1 Rivets
χ HDBK-5. Solid rivets ef specific types and materials Allowable design loads for rivets arc given in MlL-
are covered by MS 20426, MiS 20427, Μ3 20470, MS
20613, and MS 20615. Additional rivet standards,
applicable to solid, tubular, and blind rivcts (both
structural and nonstructural) are listed in Chapter 4,
AF: : DH 1-2.
Rivets are α permanent typc of fastener: they must
be destroyed in the process of their removal, and
ofien they cannot be replaced by another of the same
size. Therefore, rivets shall not be used in any applica-
tion where disassembly is expected to be necessary
during the normal life of the helicopter.
Rivets shall be used in applications where they are
subjected primarily to shear. To prevent ripping, the
ж diameters of she hcads of countersunk rivets shall bc
larger than the thickness of the thinnest of the pieccs
they fasten. Requirements for countersinking are
contained in Chapter 4. AFSC DH I-2.
In α casc where it is impossibie or impracticabie to
reach the back of the joint to buck solid rivets, blind
rivets may be used. Blind rivets may be structural or
nonstructural. Mechanical expansion generally is ac-
complishrd by withdrawal of an appropriately
ahaped spincle through the hollow center of the rivet.
Standards for stinctura! and nonstructural blind
rivets are given in MIL-STD-1515. In installation of rivets, the distance from the
center of the rivet hole to the eage of she shect
depends largely upou. the streas snalysis of the joint.
Rivets shall be locatod so that the edge distance is not
lass than 1.5 times the rivet shank diameter, or
greater than 2.5 times the rivet shank diameter on α
lap joint. The design allowable load data for counter-
sunk joints in MIL-HDBK-5 is based upon an edge
distance of two diameters. If lauer edge distanes are
used, the allowable loads shall be sutetantiated by
test data. The head angle of countersunk rivets shall
be 100 ±1 dzg.
15-2.3.2 Pias
In tie rods and on secondary controls that are not
sub:xcted to continuous operation, clevis pins may be
rused. In these usages, the reversal of streiscs and :he
chances of loosening are alight. Clevis pins shall not
be used whsre tight joints are required.
nections where the absence of play is easentiai. They

AMCP 706-202
can 5ε locked safely with castellated or self-ocking
nas. Spriag pins should conform to MS 16562, and they
may be usod within the design limitations givcn in
MS 33547. The use of swagod, collar-headed straight pins
should conform to MS 25420, and that of flathead
pina to MS 20392. The standards for positive-locking.
quick-relcase pins are given in MS 17984 through
17990.
16-2.3.3 Quick-releese Fastraers
Quick-release fasteners are classified as rotary-
operatod, lever-activated, slide action, or push-
button. Thesc typcs of fasteners are relatively casy and fast
to use, do not always require special tooling, and are
recommended for securing plug-in components,
along with anall componenis arid covers. Quick-
reicase fasteuers also are known as cowi or panel
fasteners. Specific requirements for low-strengin, quick-
release panel fasteners are given in MiL-F-5591. The
disadvantages of thesc fasteners are that their holding
power is limited and many types cannot be usod where à smooth surfacc is required. Thair edventage
is that they can be attached and relcased casily, with α
maximum of one complete turn, and usually without
the use cf hand tools.
High-strength, quick-optaiug rouary fasteners, in
accordance with MS 17731 (countersunk) and MS
17732 (protruding head), may be usod as struccural
panel fasteners.
16-2.3.4 Tursbockles &νé Terminals
In helicopter applicatiens, turnbuckks are used
primarily in controi cabie inssaligtions, and theis use
should be in sccordance with the system specificatior:
for the specific helicoprer mo "el. In most cascs, the
desired end fitting (except α threaded end Fitting) is
swaged onto the cable. Swaging is discussed in par.
174.
Turnbuckle termineis may be of either fork, cye, or
swaged configuration. Following installation and
adjustment of cable tension, turnbucklas muss be
snfctied to prevent loss of tension. MIL-Τ-5685
describes one type of turnbucklc for aircraft applica-
tion, while α positivo-safctying type of turnbuckle is
deacribed by MIL-Τ-8878. Gencral-purpose turn-
buckle bodiss (MS 27954) shail be safety-wired in ac-
cordance witn MS 33591. Clip-lock turbuckle
bodies (MS 21251) shall be locked in accordance
with MS 33736.
26-3