AMCP 706-202
kinetic energy of the rotor at timne of brske applica-
tion less any applicable rotor acrodynamic decay in-
crement. Wcar life for common brake puck materiais
is dependent upon surface temperature, pressure, and
velocity. Existing rubber-asbestos lining materials
have Scmonstrated wear rates of appreximately
0.0004 in.³/stop at pressures of 240 1β/in.³ for mean
rubbing velocitics of 6000 fpm over 20-sec stop
periods.
The second determination involves the heat sink
capacity of the disk. For stops on the order of 20 to
30 sec, stecl disk thicknesses in excess of 0.5 in. offer
little hc!π in reducing peak surface temperatures at
the end of α stop aue to thc limited thermal con-
ductivity of stecl. Current systems operate well with
vaiues ot energy/pound- of-disk ncar 100,000 ft-λù/lb
°F.
Other mnaterials such as beryllium and carbon
graphite recently have been empleyed with selative
success for hrake applications. The greatest improve.
ment scems to be avaiiable with α configuration
which uses α proprictary low modulus structural
graphitc compcsition for both the disc and puck
between äie graphite lining and the hydraulic siave
cylinders. The saddie or caliper assembly :. fabri-
cated from aluminum. Such brakes have been suc-
cessfully constructed and tested with disc thicknesses
to 1/5 in., puck diameters of 5 in.., and disc dia-
meters of ι8 in. Considerable incrcasc in energy
storage, allowable opcrating tempcrature, and wear
life has been demonstrated. Safe disc temperatures of
3000°F (incandescent white light) and α thermal
capacity of 300,000 ft-tb/ib of graphite εrc
characteristic of the design. Approximetely 20% of
wear. The puck material also serves as α ht at sir.κ and
may be considered in the thermal design capacity.
The advantages due to these characteristics seem to
indicate that weight savings on the order of 50% and
wear life increascs of σ00% relative to conventional
steel/ rubber-asbestos sysiems are obtainable. These
factors are probably sufficiant to offset the initiai
tsigh cost to the extent that α life cycle cost reduction
can be achieved.
Disadvantages lic in initial costs and structura!
limitations of the graphite material. Although
ballistic impact characteristics are satisfactory and
ο
graphite cannot compare with steci. Through bolt or
spline attschments cannot be used for the graphite
disc — α high pressure squeeze plate or friction drive
altachment is reguired. Similariy, the disc cannot be
4-64

drilled locally to achieve dynamic balance require-
ments. However, α stecl reinforcing ring may bc used
for this purpose. The structural graphite material
costs about 5400/1β as of this writing (1975) —— future
costs may be significantly less with adequate produc-
tion volume.
4-2.3 STATIC COMPONENTS
Static or nonrotating components of the trans-
mission and drive system include the gcarbox
housings, liners, quills, mounts, studs, and dowels
that serve to enclosc and support the dynamic com-
ponents. This paragraph addresses only the most
significant components; ι.χ., cases and housings, and
quills.
4-2.3.1 Cases and Housings
Helicopier gearbox cases and housings are fabri-
caied aln.est exclusively from lightweight aluminum
alloys and castings and forgings or from magnesiusn
sand castings. These materials exhibit excellent ther-
mal conducti-ity and ultimate strength-to-wcight
ratios, are rcadily machinable, and in many in-
stances may be saivaged by welding and stress
relieving with litile tesultant loss o strengih proper-
tics. Although the general approach to casting and
forging design is well covered in available literature,
plications are summarized in the paragraphs that
follow.
4-2.3.1.1! Desien α Amayals
Housiligs assd cases may be classified as primary
structural load paths (rotor mast support or control
systens reaction member) or simpfy as gear housings
for which externally applied losds are sot signif-
cant. This distinction is fundamental in the selection
of the design and analysis mcthods employed. Criti-
cality classifications of castings and forgings are de-
fined in MIL-C-6021 and are interpreted in AMCP
706-203.
In most instances specified crash load factors and
limit maneuver loads wili require ultimate and yicló
strength Ievels in primary structural cases and
housings of such mragnitude as to permit design def?
nition by siatic analysis as opposed to fatigue analy-
sis. Facigue analyais wilf be used to define only the
rotor control reaction portions of the cases and, oc-
casiol.aily. the gearbox support or mounting lugs
when rotor vibratory loads or dynamic reaction loads
frem ground resonance or larding conditions are suf-
ficieni to causc conoern for low-cycle fatigue.
Static and fatigue tost requirements are outlined in
AMCP 706-203, which deicribes basic design lond