shaft and coupling inspection and overall mainte-
nance. With this configuration, it is imperative that at
least one of the drive shaft couplings be capable of
providing adequate axial displacement.
The positive gimbal or ball joint may be replaced
by an elastomeric element that supplies vibration iso-
lation in addition to the flexibility of mechanical
joints. Isolation mounting systems are discussed in
the paragraph that follows,
ISOLATION ENGINE VIBRATION 3-2.3
engine an that specifies 706-203. AMCP 8. Chapter
determine the to conducted be survey vibration shall
dilona tst lanstell e pepaedandgrond nd and ground and prepared, be shall plan test a dition.
flight tests conducted to verify that the engine vibra-
lion environment is satisfactory.
of flow a require will design helicopter Successful airframe the manufacturer. engine the among data
danufacta a ng the engine r. ma acture The ing afre . s
manufacturer, and the procuring activity. This flow
8. Chapter in defined are data required the and S
required andthe dtype
As pointed out in AFSC DH 2-3. a mounting sub-
system be designed so that the fre- natural shall
quencies of the engine(s), when installed in the heli-
) copter, do not exceed a certain limiting frequency in
those modes of motion that may be energized by the
vibratory-forcing functions generated during the
operation of the helicopter. The natural frequencies
exceed 70% of the lowest frequency shall of the not
forcing function,
IFIREWALLS 3-24
To provide for isolation of fires, zones that contain
both combustible material and a source of ignition
must be defined and be separated from the rest shall
of the aircraft by firewalls. The firewall must with-
stand a 2000°F flame for min. 15 Sources of ignition
be may hot engine surfaces or electrical connections.
High pressure ratios and increased cycle tempera-
tures have made virtually the entire engine surface an
ignition source. Consequently, the practice of
defining the entire engine compartment as a fire zone
has evolved.
Stainless steel, at least 0.015 in. thick, is the most
commonly used firewall material. However, in appli-
cations employing a structural firewall, im-
provements in weight and cost-effectiveness may be
realized by the use of titanium or other suitable
material. In such applications the structural
requirements usually are predominant, and the
material thickness required is easily capable of pro-
viding the necessary fire protection.
Firewalls provide the most effective protection
when they are kept free of sharp protuberances such

as angles. clip%. and brackets. This allows the fire-es-
tinguishing system to operate efficiently. more
Engine installations incorporating sualy nacelles
require that only the interface to the airframe be ffre-
proof. This area, therefore. should be kqx to a mini-
mum to achieve minimum firewall weights.
Side-by-side ertinc installations require a common
center firewall, which can be made removable to
enhance engine accessibility. When is this done. care
seal. rugged to insure a tight-fitting. must be taken
this for attractive most appear seals All-metal
lapped. or butted either seals, Pliable application.
firewall the reducing thereby deteriorate, eventually
removable section provides the seal Thb. integrity. with a certain amount of inherent support, facili-
rtating removal or installation. Side-by-side engine in-
stallations are not desirable due to vulnerability and
sirations. sualion
considerations. survivability
On each face of firewalls. and immediately adja-
cn hrtuesol emd fmtraso
a or materials of made be should use thereto. cent
that will not ignite as a result of heat transfer
from flame on the opposite side of the firewall. Com-
bustible fluid-carrying lines that traverse a firewall
be equipped with shutoff valves. shail
3-2.4.1 Fire Detectors
Three basic types of detection systems are used: in-
frared, continuous wire, and spot (thermal sensors).
The infrared or surveillance fire-detection system
provides extensive fire zone coverage.
AContinuous wire fire-detection systems are of two
types: those in which the resistance across a eutectic
salt filling an annular space between two conductors
is monitored continuously, and those in which in-
creasing pressure of a gas trapped within a sealed line
pneumatically actuates a switch. Each of these types
is routed throughout the fire zone in the areas where
temperature changes caused by fire are likely to oc-
cur. The continuous-wire elemert is subject to vibra-
tion and maintenance damage, which can result in
false fire alarms. However, continuous-wire systems
are not vulnerable to false alarms from sunlight.
The spot type of fire detector, or thermal sensor,
actuates a switch to trigger the master fire-warning
circuit. This type inherently is more rugged than
continuous-wire detectors, but has very limited
coverage. As a result, spot detectors in reasonable
numbers can be used only in fire zones oý limited
volume, such as combustion heater compartments.
MIL-D-27729 covers volume surveillance types of
flame and smoke detection systems. MIL-F-7872
covers continuous-type fire and overheat warning
systems. MIL-F-23447 covers radiation-sensing (sur-
type) veillance fire warninp systems.
3-5