On the aaumplion that belicopter umpty weight
and main rotor speed at invariable, and that thc
belicopter is capable of carrying its rated payload cx-
cillations can be avoided is by controlling the stiffness
K to keep the susponsion system fioquency below
raode.
If the characteriszics of individual cargo loads are
known. it is powible to control the stiffneas K iy
tailoring the sling dxign to : load, by manipu-
lating aliag geometry (length). matarial, ard cross-
re ε ε
balicopter load combinations by preparing curves of
-
penaion gonmetries and sling webbing thicknceses
(Ref. ι3). Where suepenaion kength is variable in
fight by tbe uae of α winch, ühe stiffnees of the systemn
can be decrvased by roeding out more cablc whonever
the onset of vertical bounce is dotoctod.
Α more saitafacory soluticn to the probiam of di-
vergont ertical oscillation is avsilabic to the dc-
signer (Ref. 14). Tisis solution is to control the stiff-
nem by inoerting into the suepresics gystem & lced
υ inclator having α soft spring rate; uaking advantege of
the facz that, whon two springs are connected in
series, tke total spring rate K of the combination is
always los than the stiffaans of aithor spring, in the
preportion
$+$ .Π-/R
K
spring rate of first apring. lo/τ
K2 - - spring rste ef second apring. Ib/φ
Tloi, if tios Bond isolnior by itaadr has α sciffnees such
thet the exiernal locd frrquancy is abways below the
0.6 × 1Π turuahold frequzncy, reonanoc with 1Π fre- quency and coupling wich first fucehge bendizg
sode always will be svoidod, regardices oi the sus-
cica sling stiffneis.
Ef α saimplo spriog is moplugud ae α lond incioner, tke
ρ () Э
the tigheont Icast oombicret wiche the stifkses abiang. Α
nbon sq pa or pousp oqay edAp-Sude
qpq ga γ
ι with the suezimuce curgo lond (tiner the lissie
factor). "bs more sey pinisticated typas of load
I ce bave α veriable peisfacus tibat
pregortion ba 89 main-
yudmm astaural fre-

AMCP 706-222
Thesc nonlincar load isolators can be based on air
springs or liquid springe, although studies bave
shown hydropneumatic load isoiators to be gonoraily
superior (Ref. 11). Such an isolator usually is da-
signod as an air-oil cylinder, with σ volume of com-
pressod air providing the spring rate, and the oil pro-
viding damping and al.o à means of varying the air
volume to change stiffncss. Wben the applied load is
increased, an increased quantity of hydraulic Buid is
metered into the cylinder by α servo valve. Pro-
visions should be incorporatad to abeorb the rexoil
shock resulting from an inflight lond releme. The
load limier slso provides α convonient mount for the
placemens of α cargo-weighing load cell.
13.4.2.3 Winches and Hooks
Wbiic light bclicopters may be abie to ccnduct ex-
ternal load opcrations satisfactorily with α simpie
fixed hook and pendani or multiler sling, any cargo
belicopter should have the capability of hoisting its
maximum rated extarnal load while in α bover. This
capabilily makes it posiblc to rotrieve loads from
tight snots where cloee hovering would be unaafe. and
also enabics the pilot to roci in Ioads in fligint to mini-
mize the kind of pendulum loed osciliations which
threaten controlability (Ref. 35).
pocts which are beyond tbe realm of the balicupter
designer. However, the designer should be fasiliar
with the goneral characteristics requirad so that in-
(134) talligont apocifications may be writirn. Military heli-
-qaq = sarq pemua podsuez ruquoo nog pomn αçiso
apeod winch capabic of boisting the maximum ex-
ternal load at α rate of at leaxt 60 fpm. Witk lightor
locda, sponds in ancees of 109 fpm are ve υ dosirable.
Α no-load rseploymont rate of 300 fpan or more would
be ueafui is σ combat situation. The winch specd
-ν σ gu ν qu sqe
o
vided, as weil as an autonaatic loed boidar to lock the
winch in cese of powe: failurs. Hydraulic power
generally is upnd for high-capacity aircraft wiachas
bacauae aircraft ekrctrical moiors have inaufficient
power. Both druam aad capetan wiaches are suitabis
for Ibedicopier applicacioa. Studies have shoron so
jo sedue pe mna 'adá seqe soj sieuepe up
thair applicstiva are arod (Rads. 10. 11. and
16).
The same standius bave concludod unarimnously
thet, witkr the proacnt stats of thbc ert, stuol wire rops
is the optinuru teccios mesber. Cadis maas-
facturers recoi sadatioss nikaould be fofllorwed with
respoct to mimiuam allowable drrae and sboave dia-
ravters (400 tiancs wirs strand diatbeter or an averses
SI-EI