AMCP 706-202
2. An indication (alarm) of abnormal
within the system. " whts .Air
ρ :•
Pressure gi.,es also are used to provide
, development of fluid-ower equipment.
Pressure, or pressure chunge, within α system
be correct if pneumatically powered or
equipment is to operate properly. TI.ε proper gage
dicates this pressure and helps to prevent
tions. Gages also can be calibrated in valu.-σ
tional to pressure, such as total force exr-rted ~~~~~pnieumnatic ,• cylinder.
=ourdon-tube indicating dial gages (Fig. 9-61)
uswzd to measure pressure from 0.5 psi vacuum
150,000 psi. Primary advantages are accuracy, rug-
gedness, reliability, simplicity, and low cost. Other
methods of measuring pressure include
:.• ev-es ase upn srai gogo eadags or devces based upon strain gage read'.igs. or,
case of pulsating pressure, piezoelectric crystals.
units, relatively, are costly and comple'ξ. At thc
•end of the pressure-measurement spectru
bellows and diaphragm-type devices, which are
to measure relatively low pressures.
Components of Bourdon-tube Ji gages are
1-Howevei, many styies and materiais should he
"sidered following The gage. α selecting ii.
consideration, of order normal the in listed
Stirs selection: hi -γ
.!. Measured medium, including pressure
-and fluctuation
2. Etivironmental conditions, such as temperature
and vibratio ι
3. Wear conditions ,:aused by pulsation and
.bration
Σ~4. Connection of gage to measured medium
Counting 4. oethoe
Muizehng 546. method
"6. Size and weight
7. Accuracy.
α DIAL /POINTER
BOURDONpenetration
/
TUBE
ELINKAGE
MECHANISM
SCASE
PRESSUPIE TAP
Flgir'-. 9-61. Pressure Γ.ge-RBourdon-tube Type
9-42

Q_
pressure 9-3.2.8 Air Bttles Storage
storage bottles or vessels are often of conven
data in tional shapes, such as cylinders or spheres. On the
other hand, limited space may require α conical,
must oblate spheroid, τ,-roida!, or pear shape. Drawn
controlled cylinoers up to 9 in. in diameter and up to 50 in. lone
it- are available. Welded containers can be made much
malfunc- largcr. Capacities may range from 3.0 to 3500 in.'
propor- Cylinder bottoms may be concave, bump-shaopd,
by α spherical, or elliptical. Ports can located be wherever peiao litcl ot α elctdweee
they are required. Either external or internal thread-
are ing can be supplied.
to Pressure vessels with pressure ratings varying from
Λ, few hundred psi to 25,000 psi are available. Pressure
vessels can withstand high ambient temperatures in
electronic the range of 2750-6Ω00F. In addition, they can μ.τ
inthe vibration, shock, and other extreme requirements of in the
Such v od ν shcknthen retme reqdirhoice of
rmodern helicopter environments. varied.hieo Α
low constructions is possible. Am'•ν5 the metals that have
are been used successfully are alumiatum, low-alloy
used steels, high-strength steels, and α number of exotic
metals. For highly predictable, multicycle perform-
similar. ance, one of the chromium steel alloys is recoi-
con- ( wall and drawn, deep are cylinders Seamless factors,
An preisely. held be can tolerances thickness influence
excellent surface is obtained. The dome and Peck are
range hot spun on the open end. Heat treatment produces
thz mc.allurgical quality nr eded for best perform-
ance. Seamless drawn cylinders are relatively inex-
pensive io produce.
vi- Welding often is used to fabricate the larger sizes of
cylinders. Certain smaller cylinders for aerospace
applications, where minimum weight is α more im-
.ortant consideration than is price, also are wclded.
Containers with α wide ρ!-nge of wall thicknesses,
diameters, and alloys can be welded, as can vessels of
exotic high-strength metals.
Fiberglas vessels usually are lighter than their all-
metal counterparts. Advanced technology has made
them highly reliable. Gilrne-finished glass, bonded
,gainst with epoxy resin and protected moisture.
ar. by external coating, can be used to
fabricate pressure vessels. Internal rubber linings
ffectivcly retain the air in instances where some
permeability can be tolerated.
Composite cylinders offer extremely low weight
without sacrificing reliability. In this type of con-
struction, α cylindrical metal shell having hemi-
spherical ends wrapped with circumferential is
weldings usually of bonded Fiberglas. Hoop loads -
are shared between metal shell and windings while
longitudinal loads are carried by the metal alone.
Wire winding may be applied in accordance with