~ AMCP 70620
-
need a "no-back" (a device to prevent the foed- for
back of forces) located upstream of the SAS series
tuator. A stick boost also will perform this function.
if the helicopter is to be equipped with In addison,
autopilot that introduces signals through actuators
that move the cockpit controls in parallel with
pilot, there is a requirement for compatibility amr.ong
tVe inertia, compliance, and damping of the primary
controls and of the parallel actuator. m.chanical
6-4.5 VULNERABILInY
exposes operations grounid of support close The
and U cargo, utility, S Army's observation, the
and automatic to arms small armed helicopters
weapons fire, The unprotected, singlc-channel flight
its entire over is vulnerable control length. system
reduce vul- a number of There this are weys to
nerability.
naethod One so rugged the components make is to
struc- losing their sustain a without that hit they can
feasible, seldom this is However, tural integrity.
must weight be controlled and space when pecially
rigidly.
will be pro- the cockpit, as areas, such Cert.,m safeguard armor piate tectec in order to with I
to shield same armor can used te crew. The
feasible However, it may not be mechanical controls.
the swashplatc. way to all the plate armor to run
cintrol A redundant system not only helps solve Wo
also improves flight vulverability problem but the
safety reliability. To be effective, redundant channels
must be separated physically. Consideration must
given to single-channel jams and disconnects, to ade-
quacy of control if the remaining chann-.l goes to half
gait, and to the question of whether the con-
figuration should be active-active or active-standby.
64.6 RELIABILITY
The overall reliability of a flight control system
pends upon the reliability of the individual com-
ponents and upon their arrangement, which may
either in series or parallel. If the helicopter system
specification prcscribes a minimum acceptable value
for flight safety reliability, this value may be so high
as to require dual mechanical controls. The detail
designer first must establish the single success path;
then, if system reliability is inadequate (a value
than required by the helicopter system specification),
he must add redundancy, beginning with the least
reliable componn'nts,
The reliability of a component is a function of
historical mean time between iailures (MTBF) of that
component. When historical failuic rates arc used,
similarity between the tav,ronment under which
6-18

data were taken and the environment in which the
ac- new system will perform must be assured, or ap-
propriate adjustment of the projected rates must be
an made.
Another rationale for duplication is based upon
the failure considerations. power A actuator may pro-
vide the required reliability; but if a failure of the ac-
tuator is catastrophic, a redundant actuator is re-
Further discussion of this subject is con- quircd.
tained in pars. 6-5.2 and 9-2.
MECHANISMS 6-5
The rotating controls in the main rotor sytem nor-
mally the include links, the pitch swashplate, rotating
shown drive These the components are scissors. and
in the Fig. 6-8. Functionally, arrangement in a typical
shaft the rotor along translates swashplate rotating
inputs. by any tilts in dictated control plane as and
to arc transferred and tilt translation swajhplatc The es-
and, links pitch the through horn the blade pitch
ro.or thrust vector. The thereby, control the main
con- the rotating of (a) fix tMe positionp scissors drive the • blades. and iu ihc and rotor ruoor rchaivc cruis 'haft
of drive the load path for the conversion the (b) provide
to in- the tangential force required shaft torque into
controls. rotating in the motion duce rotational
6-5.1.1 Design Factors
be designed Structurally, the rotating system shall
be to withstand the alternating (fatigue) flight loads in-
troduccd by rotor blade torsional moments and the
maximum loads introduced by severe flight mameu-
vcra or during ground operations. The fatigue loads
are periodic, and alternate primarily on the basis of
once-pcr-rotor-tevolution. In other words, each time
the rotor blades complete one revolution, the pitch
de- link load completes one stress cycle. Therefore, a
high-cycle fatigue evaluation is rcquired. The pri-
be mary loads are discussed in pars. 4-9 and 4-10,
AMCP 706-201. and the fatigue evaluation is dis-
cussed in par. 4-11, AMCP 706-201.
In addition to the primary Pisht loads, special con-
sideration be given to socondary loads. Failure shall
to evaluate secondary loads properly may lead to set-
less vice problems. Among the secondary loads that shall
be considered are frictional moments in rods and
bearings, and bending moments created by centri-
fotgal force. typical A pitch link rod end, with a self-
the aligning bearing, is shown in Fig. 6-9.
Bearing motions of -6 deg are not uncommon
during each rotor revolution. The normal force (pitch
coefficicnt the link aad) times the of friction produces a