box remote from the main rotor gearbox. Multiple
sysierns with rodundancy become irnperative, and thc
complexity and power required for ground chechout
establishes the socd for an auxiliary power unit
(APU). With multipie drive pads and high con-
tinuous power requirement tho remote accessory
drive gcarbox must have α recirculating oil systesn,
complete with oil pump and filter. For cmergency
lubrication considerations, the gearbox must be self-
contained to prevent oii depletion from the main
transmiesion in the event of the scesory gearbox
cesaory gearbox must not introduce unacceptable
noise ievcls in crew compariments.
46.3 ACCESSORY DRIVE DESIGN
REQUIREMENTS
Accesory gearbox design and configuration fac-
tors must be compatibie with the main gcarbox
power takeoff. airframe and cowling. work plaiform
provisions, CG. and minimization of gear-induced
noiac. Particular drive pad power requirenents arc
determined by the accesory (hydraulic pump.
generator. alternator. eic.) and the proper MS.
AND, or QAD pad must be provided to moct the
continuous power rating and scizure torquc kevel.
Tbe accessory drive shat normaliy is provided with α
shear section that must fail in the event of scizure of
the sccessory rather than permit damage to the ec-
cessory gearbox. Coincidentally the accessory drive
gearbox must be provided with α connecting drive
shaf system that will isolate effects of sccessory gear-
box seizure from the main roior gearbox. Multiple
clutch srrangemente are required to provide isolation
of the APU during normai helicopier opcration and
overrunning isolstion of tbe geaibox from ihe main
rotor gearbox duing APU) drive (ground checkout,
ac.). APU shaft mountod centrifugal clutches are
well suited to thc former application and one-way
sprag clutches are well suited to the latter. Func-
tionally. the APU must power the accessory gearbox
by ariving through the APU input clutch whilc thc
main gearbox drive is discngaged by means of the
one-way sprag clutch in the accessory gearbox. Con-
vesscly. as the main rotor(σ) beconic opcrative. the
APU is shui down and disengaged whilc the main
rotor gearbox drives into the accessory gearbox
through the one-way clutch. Additional clutches may
be requirod to limii the number of accessory drivas
that operate during ground operation.
6-5.3 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
Aa mentioned previously. the noise generated by
the accemories mugt be congidered in the choice of

AMCP_706-202
gearbox location. The hydraulic pumps are cspecially
severe noise generators and close proximity to α crew
compartment can cause intolerabie high-pitch sound
levels. Elastomeric mounts can be an effective noisc
isolation means. APU exhaust ducting must be ade-
quate to prevent noxious gas and heat from invading
the personnel compartments. As with other gear-
dicators for preflight maintenance. One man should
be able to change accessories without assistance.
REFERENCES
1. Darlc Ω. Dudicy. The Evolution of the Gear Ari.
circa 1906. AGMA 990.14, 50ih Annual Mceling
cf the American Gear Manufacturers Associa-
sion. June 1966.
2. Δ. Ω. Dudley. Ed.. Gear Handbock. McGraw-
Hill Book Co., NY, 1962, Chapter 5, π. 20.
3. 3bis, Chapter 14. π. 20.
4. Installation of High-Reduction-Raiio Transmis-
sion in Ihe UH-1 HelicopIer. USAAVLABS TR
68-57. May 1969.
5. F. Α. Thorna, Writien commentary on paper,
Thermal Behavior of High-Speed Gears by Luigi
Martinaglia. ASME Symposium oa Trans-
missions & Gears, San Francisco. CA.. October
1972.
6. Arvid Palmgres, Ball and Roller Bearing
Engincering. Σ. V. Burbank & Co.. Inc.,
Philadelpbsia. PA.. 1954. pp. 36-4!.
7. Donakd F. Wilcox, and E. R. Boostr. Bearing
Design and Application. McGraw-Hill Book
Co.. Inc.. NY. ι937. π. 83.
8. Toäriik Α. Harris, Rolling Bearing Analysis.
John Wiley & Sons, inc., New York. 1966.
Chapter 14 and 15.
9. Α. Β. Joncs, "Rall Motion and Sliding in Ball
Beurings". ASNE Journal of Basic Ergineering.
1-12 (March 1959).
10. Π. Δ. Wachler. The Rollway Conical Bearing.
RE-0012-01. Rollway Bearing Co.. Inc..
Syracusc, NY. November 1972.
11. Dudley, op. cit.. Chapter 14. π. 19.
12. Predict-δ Characteristics of an Optimized Series-
Hybrid Conical Hydrostatic Ball Bearing.
NASA TN Δ-6607. December 1971.
13. "Lubrication and Wear". Lubricetion. Texaco,
Inc.., NY 5η. No. 6 (1965).
14. R. Σ. Fein and K. Λ. Kreuz, Discussion on Boun-
dary Lubrication. NASA Symposium
Procealings Preprint Supplement. San Ántonio.
TX. November 1967. pp. 6.2.1-6.2.25.
4.89