reage of ju to 0.2. Contamination 0. 1 of
Α bearings in service reultod in higher has values. Hig
may to rotor system lWads add significasidy uniutwn
Radial the design. considered in should and be
differential expansion due to bearing fo.-ces
source possible considered as α should be
Al loads, damaginS frictional
bearings fabric Teflon Wear characteristics. 3.
wear at sn given load level will eswn- operating α at
approximately half the liner up to tially constant rate,
at this time. Bearings should rep.laced thickness. be
backing slightly when the rate may increase The we"ρ
is exposed. material
bearing wear When loads apt not reversing,
clearance. Wear reflected in increased not always be
of the bearing side on θ.- unloaded collects debris %
known to tight. Unless it is that the fit appears be
wear. means of wear clearance will increase with
other than checking clearance, *deterniination
planned. lightness, should be
Flexlng 5-,U.3 Elaemens
I.-.The centrifugal force on the blaide acts as thrust α
Flexing tension elements Anr nth np hinge
in number of helicopters to react thia fomx used α
accommodating movement In pitch. while also
two mtst commen types of flexing elunents are metal
shown in Fig. tension-torsion assemblies, 5-23, strap
and wire-wound tie bars, shown in Fig. 5-24.
5-5..31Tealeaterlo. tra Asembiescopter
".23. Tes~ataison tra Asemibitsflexibility
Many configurations of tension-torsion strap
assemibliw~ have beeni u"Α~ in addition to those shown
in Fig. These include different 5-23.
arrangements, unslotted straps, straps of uifferent
* -.
CHAI
CNA
0
and Flwe 5-23. CH-47 Temlon-Torsion CH-46
SthP Assemblies
5-32

with and without spacerss the thickness, and uas*="ie
sparating the straps..
shown have assemblies sue tnson-toruaon straps
with stainless Nteel, thickness in. nominal of 0.032
stresses due to torsion. the shown to reduce slots also as
the ends to reduce separate the straps at of Thin shims
fretting.
Cot *43-deg capability provide the The assemblies
loads, and in nonrol4 wider design blade motion
duaring cyclod approximately :Λ6 dog operation arm
-otor revolution. each
does not the aaaembaes stiffness of Torsional stamp
For sirnificantly. forces pitch control affect the
α tor- assembly of Fig. example, the larger 5-23 has may
the deg under of 120 in.-β per spring rate sional
For the high- the blade. load of centrifug-λ so 85,000-lb
ent of pitching mo- condition the increm that flight speed
assembly is contributed the tension-torsion ment by
predicted blade pitching mo- or less than of the total 3%
ment.
have shown assemblies of Fig. The strap 5-23
excellent fail-safe characteristics. Fatigue failure is
charnctc.-ized breaking by of α single element of α
strap, senerilly on an outside corner, followed by are
ividluas π to otr outer eeet fe itabsaon
cycle The much continued cycling. (3round-air-ground
testing also has resulted in slow failure progression
in the lug.. from element to element
The tension-torsion assembly of the heli- OH-6Α
assembly provides Fig. This 5-11. is shown in
for flarping well as for pitch, or as
feathering. The IS stainless steel straps carey the con-
trifugal loads from one blade lag hinge across to the
slot oppositt hinge and provide α fail-safe. retention
system.
"5-.2.3.2 Wire Th-Ar Asa mles
Q wire is wound am'all-diamecter Very-high-strength.
retention form α lightweight around end fittings to
system that is flexible torsionally under centri- blade
flexibility can be The inherent torsional fugal loads.
to if 10 I varied over α range of approximately
configuration (Fig. 5-24). desired, -- hanging the by
Normal torsional stiffnesesM like those of the flexing
0 strap assemblies, are such as to have insignificant
effects on control loads.
"5-.2Α4 Elastometic Bearings
on based are bearings Elastomeric blade-retention
will with- layer of clastokner that α thin the principle
stand high normal (compteasive) forces and still per-
using alter- By deformation (strain). high shear mit
metal, the blade hinge( nate of elastomer layers and
forces can be carried compression of as the elms-
towmer and the hinpt oscillation carried as shear.