706202 SECP
MATERIALS WINDOW 2-3.5 thermal for as well as and shock, noise .and reduce to
methods attachment are , insulation. The rigid foams are used as light-weight Gazing materials and of
in MIL-HDBK-17. That docu- discussed in detail stiffeners in structures.
Spccification" Military additional lists also ment
cement., resins, glazing materials, specific coveting
wi- of fabrication and design the for proc-.sscs and dis- comprehensive α MIL-HDBK-149 presents
dow systems. elastomeric materials of the technology the of cussion
significancefor greatest of properties optical The of standpoint the their applications. From and
'φ re- index reflection, surface are glazing aircraft remains natural rubber performance, durability and 9
an of transmission and light, of absorption fraction, in used arc quantities substantial and demand, in
of pri- properties thermal image. The undistorted rubbers. synthetic other and butyl, SBR, with blends
the expansion, of coefficient the are concern mary iso- of polymer stcrospecific α is Natural rubber
tempera- distortion the conductivity, and thermal prene.
and are density properties major physical tare. The shock tires, bumpers, in pneumatic Its applications
mechani- the major hardness, or scratch-resistance; and gaskets, in belting, well as as etc., absorbers,
strength compressive and tensile are properties cal con- quantities Substantial known, well arc seals,
"tinue will glazing ideal elasticity. The of the modulus and black Carbon hdicopters. in employed tc. be
and structural enough to withstand strong il-csc be cor- of the ω,:ight of 50% about constitutes
to enough loads, hard water) and (wind operational positions.
of life α after clear optically unscratched, remain nt-nnr%,,ε, α is rubber more advanced synthetic Α
unaf- loads, and by thermal unchanged operatiun, poly- emulsion by made general-purpose synthetic
the weather. by fccted characteristic notable Α chloroprene. of merization
": ris monri- rabte•ri ι,.,- foles, Although no material- all these de- o gasoline. ε of passess τ
perform that are several there characteristics, sirable re- excellent δ its α solvents, othur and eating oils,
are that materials glazing The three well. ver) ultra- and ozone, weather-oxidations, to sistance
and polyester, cast employed most often arc glass, tear resis- goon strength, It tensile has violet light.
an Polycarbonate, (methylmethacrylate). aciylic cast character;σ- rebound and resistance, abrasion lance,
been yet not contender, has strong otherwise It and fabrics. to metal adherence excellent and tics,
the re- with sheets in large economically produced di- excellent has and insulation average provides
optical properties. quired to coat is used In it helicopters, circtric strength.
when only helicopters in is used glas- Monolithic pro- the for rotors of edges the leading and radomes
τ(mpera- performance the ex,.ecd temperatures use is also It dust. and rain by against abrasion tection
poiymeric the and glasses laminated the of tures where and areas edges leading other on in boots used
im- glass with plastit of lamination The materials. belts, hoses, in transmission and factor; is α wear
τ rne-har.ca! to- therma the provcE. and -cs~σ!_ι. apl-U---------- ecica liEcs &-1 sas,
complete of possibility the minimize; and stresses, materials of clastonteric family important Another
I is pre- γ'asi of the Splintering α panel, of failure and diverse in many used are silicones, which the is
the of capacity load-carrying the although vented, are silicones applications. The unrelated seemingly
The glass. plate that of than is less glass laminated and silicon alternating having organo-poly-siloxanes,
great- provide the sel,.cted to so as is plastic interlayer The sili- the chain. of the backbone in atoms oxygen
buty- energy. Polyvinyl impact absorb ability to est extruded, or injection- cast, be resins may cone
for both material interlayer most common ral is the are They products. shaped as to form so molded
plastic laminates. and glass of pastes as α range bulk form; or in sheet available
transparent polyester-base, Α new thermosetting, and coat- adhesives, sealants, for use as liquids and
has becn developed under the trade for foaming. They are stable sheet material ings; and as powders
en- for aircraft be used It can 880". "Sierracin niame to from - 140' at temperatures continuously
 0 up to of temperatures operate at suifitce that are dosuren. They 70001. to and initermittently +600 F,
cure. two-stage by its is characterized 300°F. and and α strength high dielectric hove weather-resistant,
physical ultimate the post-ctri~ag, and formiig After easily to and are bonded dissipation factor, low
880 Sierracin obtained. are materia! of this properties Aromatic substrates. and plastics ceramics, metals,
is with acrylic, and as α laminate is used and generally swell silicones, chlorocoinpounds solvents and
in MIL-Π-8257. described do other than gas permeability higher they have
heli- nast for widely u;sed materiaS glazing The encapsu- foaming agents, used as They are rubbert.
In many air- cast polymethylmethacrylate. is copters applications, sealants, electrical and in mesins, latin
2-10