AMCP 7Ofr202
Shock-susceptble components should not
mounted on panels. Afttr ballistic acceptanice armor
without processing testing, no therm.al is permissible
with the ballistic of conformance reverification
this from Deviation requirement acceptance limiui.
review and approval the by subject to .11be
activity, curing
not methcid- be attached by Armor should
the armor to tzanswjit the impact shock froml
critical component.
installation In general. the followi.ng detailed
quirenients should met: be
except where simple curved α Use flat plates 1.
angular in gaining is advantageous bent shape
or weight savings. toction
provide space installations stkould 2. armor All
in armor thickness. increase of 50% possible future α
Avoid the use of cutouts or holes in any portion 3.
of the plate for or clearing miscellaneous supporting
apparatus.
4. Do not alHow any cutting or burring after
fiWa from the armor delivery manufactume'σ
this may locally the ballistic capability. degade since
14-3.3Α.3 Pu~es SpahA and Spell
of the projec- splash is defined as particles Bulle
formed from the impact against armor. With MMtile
armor the splash tends to travel along the surface
the armor, much like the flow of α fluid. Bullet
to the ρ nlddcncued.ag bodies of the crew, is dangerous sial7atce and cyes
The effective motho& of providing to equipment.
are to it deflect Protection against bullet splazh
or to turn it back along its original to trap it,
14-20

Any steel armor in α position that it could be such
into vital direlt secondary or bullet splash fragments
flanges, be components with spall provided shall
deflect splash stripe (peripheral fences) to or shields,
these particles,
the anrmor, either on of is the fragmentation Spall pro-.
with or without side or on the reverse, the impact
the armor. The armor penetration of that complete
adequate spall in Chapter the matcrials listed 1 fe~ature
of the ceramic comn- with the exception ftsstaflcc.
action is to overlay the exposed re- posites. The remedial
ctramic facing with α bonded layer of ballistic nykc.ν
to curl tht backing up or cloth and, where required,
edges. tile at panel beside the pro-
compos- produced on ceramic The splash or spall
cone α rather narrow tends to form for ite armor
flight path. the projectile centered about
REFERENCES
the I 560-Μ ULTI-0O1, 1. Procurement Specifiation for
plant USAAVSCOM, St. Llghtwe~ghl AircrqJk Armor,
Louis, MO, 17 Oct 66.
MIL-STD-1288, 2. Aircrew Protecrion Requiremenis.
29 Sep 1972. Nonnuclear Weapons Threat,
κ
3. Industrial Cmqferene of Government American
steel on Thresho& Limit Values, Hygienisis. Committee
of Cincinnati, Revised 1966. OH-,
splash 4. ADS-Il, Survlvability/ Vuin-rability Program
St. Louis, MG,we and, ε 92 USAAVSCOM Requirements,
TR 7-41, 5. US* SurvIvability Design Guide for Army
(now~ Vol. II Vol (U), (C) USAARDL away, I Aircraf!,
Eustis Di-ectorate, Ft. course Eustis, USAAMRDL),