plicated shapes, may require more cosplex anti-icing
subsystems.
Twin-engine helicopiers ofter employ the smi-
exposed configuration. This enabkes a singke housing
unin to enclose ali engines, and provides good a.cessi-
Sinty to sll eugines provided ihey are spaced suffici-
ently fas apari. Additional accessibility can be ob-
this is done, the designer must pay particular atier-
ton to the seals on thr removabie sections. Laby-
tinth seals are superior to other sealing methocs
because ihey can be separated repeatcdly: however,
they do not scal as wel! as ottier methods.
interchangeability betwecn engine installaiion
componeras is desirable. and usually can be obtained
for the cxhaust ducts, engine mounts, and enginc con-
trol installations. Carefut design will enabie many
detail parts to be used on opposite assemblies with
considerable savings in initial and maintenance costs.
along wvith increasco aireraft availability.
3-2.1.3 Eapoues Jeztellation
In the exposed installation. engines are located out-

“
side the airframc and at. exposed on all sides. This
arrangement, an examplc of which is shown in Fig. 3-
3. commonly is used with a streamlined nacelie ihat
provides environmental protoction and reduces acro-
dynamic drag. The extemnally mounted engine as-
rangement provides the best accessibility. providedi
adequate service platforms or other convenient work
arcas are available.
The naccllks sometimes are auached directly to
fuselage frames. Acccs: to the engines usually is pro-
vided by removable paucis. The engine mounts may
be incorporated into the basic naceile siructure. A
fea:ure of this type of nacelle construction is that
many external surfaces may consist of hinged penels.
which when open. caposc the engine. 3f dcsises. the
pancls may be opened individualiy for servicing any
Jocalized section of the engine. When the panels are
in th:e closed and focked position, they can become
loadsharing structural members of the naceile. The
Pancis also may be designod so serve as a work plat-
form. This arrangement tequires a minimumn amount
ef fixed structure end results in
bility of thc eng;inc.
Feguse I.3. Enposed Engixe iastallasion (Example:
3-3