is considerably loms for the name intcrference fit-up.
cilficuit to control. • …: Consoquently, fretting and ring creep also are more
4-2.2.2.1.4 Skddding Coutrod
Lightly loaded high-spoed bearings tnay operate
with groes sliding betwoen the rolling element com-
ploment and the rotating inner race. Such operation
can produce smearing or raco surface failures not un-
like those cauaod by gaur tooth scuffing. The contri-
fugal aaxeleration prescnt at high apcod creates α con-
siderabie rolling element/outer race load, with
braking traction forces exceoding driving traction
fcrces at the rolling element/inner race contact. Re-
tainer drag forces and lubricant viscoeity also play an
important part in determining load-speed-slip con-
ditions. Hiatorically. this distress mode has been 8
greater problen with cylindrical roller bearings than
with ball bearings. Calculation of slip-critical con-
ditions is relatively uncertain, but some uscful insight
may be gained from Ref. 8.
One method for preventing groas alip is to main-
tain at the inner race/rolling dement contact the load
required to obtain suffcient driving traction. This
may be accomplished on Db or DF anguiar contact
β arings witk internal preload. Α preioad spring may
be required with single-row bali angular contact
bearings.
There are several methods for controlling gross slip
with cylindrical soller bearings:
1. Out-pf-round outer roceways may be cmployed
to produce α pinch effoct upon installation. Installa-
tin oriontatioa is roquirod such that the external
geer loads are ortbogonal to the pinch load plane
(Raf. 84).
2. Α small aumber of oversized radially tight,
boilow rollers may be dispersed at even intervais
throughout the complement. This method requires
careful sizing of the holiow rolicrs to proclude bend-
isg fatiguo failures (Rof. 85).
3. When the coafiguration permits, the roller
bearing may be mountod vary slightly off-center with
respoct to the shaft axis. If the shaft is positioned by
an additional pair of hearinga, sufficient radial pre-
Voad may be effectod to provide the necessary traction
.doad.
4. Out-of-round liaors have boea cmployed to pro-
duce the same reault as in Itan 1. The primary dis-
.advantags to this technique is the increasod difficulty
in asounbly and disasembly.
· To minimize skidding tendencies in high-spoed
bearinga, tbe amalicst acceptablc diamciors shouid be
cle of the comploment of rolling clements. Retainers
.4-54

may roquire balancing to obtain satisfactory opera-
tion. As in elernent skidding. α criticsl spoed exists;
the centrifugal acceleration at this spced will dispiace
an out-of balance retainer off center until all land
contact occurs in α single local zone of the retainer.
This may, in turn, cause rapid retainer wear at the
pockets as well az the guiding tails. Oncc started, thc
wear rapidiy acccierates until failure occurs — ofien
in 20 hr or less.
However, α dichotomy often exists with respect to
clesrance requirements. While controliod roduction
of internal clearance to minimal values tends to re-
duce the skicding tendency of lightly loaded bearings,
it comprisas their ability to operate without lubrica-
tion, ι.χ., fail-safe opcration (scc par. 4-4.3, Emergen-
cy Lubrication). Normal heat distributior within α
bearing with inner ring rotation reaults in α negative
temperature gradicnt from inner ring through rolling
clements and outer ring to the housing with the inner
raceway operating broadly from 50 deg to 100 deg F
hotter then the outer raceway. The shaft and inncr
ring heat flow paths offer Icss rejection capability
than the outer ring and housing paths. This, coupled
with the customarily higher heat generation rate
etsendant with inner racs siiding veiocitics and
counterformai contacts, results in the higher inaer
race operating tomperatures. Under normal opera-
ting couditions, the lubricant removes the bulk of the
heat and maintains thermal stabilization within this
gradiont. However, when the cooling effect and the
friction reducing characteristics of the lubricant are
absent, temperature stabilization can only occur at
the higher gradients dictated by the incrcased friction
and reduced heat rejection. If internal clearances are
sufficient to accommodate the expansion attendant
with thc new gradient and incrcascd cverall tempera-
ture, then stable fail-safe operation is theoretically at-
tainable. However, if inadequate internal clearance
exists, α radially tight condition resuits. This in turs:
leads to α divergent increase in temperature until
bearing seizure or shaft faiiure occurs.
As described previously, thc mechanical means of 2
providing positive rotation for the rolling ckements in
order to roduce skidding tendency can be applied in
conjunction with greater interna! clearance to affect α
dasign without skidding and with fait-safe opcrating
capability. Since the skidding tendency is highest in
lightly loadod high spced bearings, it is pousible to in-
sall nonload-carrying hoilow rollers in cylindrical
roller besrings without loss of nocdcd cupacity. This
offers the driving feature required to defcat skiading
"nile providing adoquate radial clearance to accom-
modate thermal growth during fai-saf operation.
Bearings with lower spood and highes loads exhibit