operating in the ranges velocity of scoring sensitivity satisfactory The most technique cur rently available
never should less be than 1.65. value α that pcrmits for calculating gear scoring risk Is based upon the
two-tooth load sharing in the first and thirds last critical temperature hypothesis (Ref. 72). hype- This Of
meshing contact. The profile contact ratio may be thesia suggests that for every oil-meta combination,
reduced for hliefcal α-id spiral bevel getass thrc ι,,ea there exists α cr~tical constant conjunction tempera-
face contact ratio is suffcient δ to assure total ture at or above which α surface scoring occurs. Ap-
developed contact ratio of 2.0 or greater. Reliable plication of the co~icepi requires determiratior, of ap-
achievement of these contact ratios requires ac- propriate values of the critical temperature and the Τ,
curecy of spacing, profile tooth slope, slope. and temperature lead conjunction of the Τ7 with the 7, + Α Τ
Seleiction of tooth numbers 3. to insure hunting initial temperature of the oil-mesh interlace it as
tooth action. In general, this requires that the number enters mesh and being the temperature rise Α Τ
in any two mrshing gears be relatively during prime; the meshing cyckc. The of critical teetl. temperature
ι.ε., that theme no be comimon factors. An indication hypothesis implies that the limiting or failu~re load Wf
of the significanrcý this requirement is given LA Fig. by is related to certain design variables. The specific
4-23, which illustrate* the difference in scoring load rzlationship has be=σ reduced to standard geur teresti-
limit between and Star-synchronized separate motor nology and published by AGMA (Ref. 73). Aver4.
driven 4.0 in. diameter test disc operating in MIL-Λ- values for thermal conductivity, specific heat, denti-
780 oil (Ref. 71). and an assumed ty, constant coefficient of friction of
φ 4. Modification of the involute profile to compen- 0.06 have been incorpoxatuid into the empirical -
sate for deflection of the teeth under load-deflected questions for the temperature rise and the Α Τ
load so that the loading ors the entering and leaving scoring geometry factor 2,
tooth pair contacts varies susoothly rafthr than in α
* step-functon. This not only minimizes the trans-
,\ att the (4-44) initted 1 elidin velocity cU carried I;;--
ij but reduces the dynamic ioad increment as wel!. 5OSJ\) /J(-4
Provision 5. of adequate, uniformly distributed oil
flow to the entire tooth face width. The dual function where
of cooling lubrication and Ii best served by use of Ω'-ttlcfcieprtohtal
bo'.η in-mesh and out-of-mesh oil jets. When both α effective - gaer tooth, oad ι lb F,
cannot jets employed be (either minimize to windage effectiveface width, Σ pin. -
losses because or of marginal pumnp supply), it usual- Σ rinis surfac frispin -
ly is best to retain the in-mesh jet for high-speed scrn speed,- rpm ρ dmniols -
gearing and the out-of-mesh jet for low-speed atr iesols
-soiggoer
geapryns.
(4-45)
626ε ANN δ, 14O DISKS α,0.0175 ~~hINLE ~ j ι; I V411' Τ OIL TCWP-Iq
UIISVIHqOMIZiO CI---.
9- SYIICHRONIZEU 0~ O
where
-- N number of teeth in pinion -
number of teeth in gear -
diameitral pitch, in. Π - 1 N radiu~σ of curvature of gear tooth, in. - --
radius of curvature of pinion tooth, in. ρ -
transverse operating pressure angle, - Τ Z7 deg
using 4-44 and 4-45, is assumed as equal to Eqs. Τ, I 51 J= 200300C
the oil inlet temperature. However, considerable V,- V'. 11 mm
error can be introduced through the actual values off ξ
Figur 4-23. Scuffivig Load Sliditig is Velodly and Τ, because the friction coefficient often lower is Λ-4-42 -
Sym~eakd ad UsyncroasedDimthan and 0.06 the pinion-gear surface temperatures
Usnhole ie