AMCP 706-202
genareted (sce Ref. 4 and Chapter 5, AMCP 705-
201). This curve dascribes * center of instability by
defining. as α function of biade propertics, the razio
of rotor rpm to undamped airframe rigid-body
natural frequency that leads to instability. Α band of
instaoility on either side of the center of instability is
superimyosod using Coleman'σ technique (Ref. 4).
The analytical technique cotablishes instabilixy in the
absence of oleo or roior blade damping. Α cc%ι-
parison with the resu'ts of Step I determines what
conditions of rotor rpm and strut and tire sifneeses
lecd to instavility.
3. Stabilize the system τ: reducing the width of the
inst.bility band to zero through the introduction of
both rotor bub domping and oieo damping.
Deutsch'σ criteria (Ref. 5) specify the produc: of
blade and o'eo damping neccisary to reduce the un-
stable range to zero. Required strut damping is ob-
tained from Eq. 6, Ref. 5. Strut damping will be non-
lincar with respect to stroke and soad if & tapered
metering pin is used, resulting in α variablc orifioe
area. Here, the damping airould be defined as the tan-
gent to the force/velocity curve at cach discrete com-
. binatioa of strut loading. The conditions for which
ground rsonance must be avoided (see par. 5-3.5,
AMCP 706-201) include: one blade damper in-
operative and the combinstion, on & single strut, of
flat tire(σ) and flat strut (shock absorber pressure at
zero). These cases are discussed in R.ef. 5. The
methods of anglysis aiso are discussed in Chapter 5.
AMCP 706-201, while substantiation requirements
are given in Α.MCP 706-203.
12-4 WATER-LANDING CAPABILITY
12-4.1 GENERAL
The design criteria applicable to water landings are
α sink spcod of 8 fps in ccmvination with 2/3 rotor
lift, and appropiate head moment and drag at θ-
tasic structural design gross weight. Specific landing
conditions to which thesc criteria apply are:
1. Zero forward speed
2. Forward speed of 30 kt
3. Asymmetrical drop, with the huli rollec 10 deg
and no forward speed
4. Α forwpr 1 speed of 30 kt and α yaw anglc of 15
deg
5. Α forward speed of 30 kt and nzse-up pitch
angles of 3, 6, nd 9 ceg
Wien deterin.ng the lateral stability of the heli-
copter, the following lateral imbalances must be con-
sidered:
1. Lateral displacement of the helicopter CG from
the centerline as inherent in the corstruction of the
helicopter
12-12

2. Eficct of partially empty fuel tanks
3. Placemnent of passengers, crew, anu cargo
4. Rotor biade lead-lag effect.
For helicopters with α water-takooff capability, α
minimum clearance of 6 in. bet veen the rotor blades
and the water must te provided at the roquirod sea
state with rotor shut down. This procludes possible
damage to the blades whils the belicopter is rolling
and drifting during engine sbutdown.
Sea state is α condition that compriscs beight of
waves, wind velocity, und wave iength. Current prac-
tice is to use significant wave-bcighi valuee, which are
considered conservative, for &esign. Α graph of wave
height versus wind velocity for different sca statos is
shown in Fig. 12-10.
When calculating the buoyancy of σ fiont, it is
customary to consider the weight of fresh water as
62.4 1β/ft'.
Inverted V-type huil shapes arc preferrod over flat
or round shapes. Inverted V hulis have low water
resistance and reasonable serodynamic characteris-
tics, whereas floats with circular bottom sections tend
to stick and to exhibit undesirable spras characteris-
tics. Methode to prevent spray from obecuring the
pilot'σ vision or damaging the biades during landing.
takeoff, or taxiing should be incorporated in the in-
itial decign stage. Spray deflectors arc α possible solu-
tion, but they result in increased drug, ι.ε., poorer
performance. Buoyancy of float hulls is dictated pri-
marily by interior cabin size, with the reault that hull
helicopters generally have substantial amounts of
excess buoyancy.
12-4.2 PRIME CAPABILITY
For water-bazed helicopiers, the basic fictacion
design will consist of metal floats or hull-snaped fuse-
lage with. somne form of ovtriggers for stability. The
tight compartments so that, with any single compart-
ment of the hall or float flooded, the buoyancy of the
helicopter still will provide sufãcient stability to pre-
vent capsizing in the ses state in -hich it is to operate.
The high CG inherent in helicopter design.
together with the large droop of the biades, make
helicopter operatior: in the open occan sca state dif-
ficult without the imposition of large performance
and weight renaltics to obtaint the required stabiltiy
and blade clearance (Fig. 12-10). The use of α sca
archor to meintais α heading into the wind and
waves is one approach to improving tse roll siability
for cperation in this sea state.
12-4.3 ADDITIONAL CAPABILITY
Many helicopters are primarily land based, with