ACP 206-312
whirling critical spood. Α satisfactory lightweight
deign for an engine-to gearbox shaft for modarute
angles (of the orde 2.5 deg) and 0.25 in. vacillatory
axial motion probebly wouid be roquired so operate
in the super-critical renge if tbe enginc ouiput spood
were above 6000 rpm.
4. Eiastomeric couplings. Considorable develop-
ment work cuiminatiag ejth experimensal ligh!
Icsting on belicopters suck as the YH-51 havc bocn
accomplisbed with this ype of coupling (Fig. 4-40).
However, all suaccseful applicatikons have had low
angular misaligument and axial deflection require-
mazts. Efforts to Sevelop higher capabilities (up 10
2.5 deg sicady misalignment and ±0.25 in. oscil-
latory axial displacemert) have met with failure. Tbc
low angle cunfiguratiors àave uacd zimple rubber cle-
mente in shear or compression, whilke for higher
anglcs very thin, multiple layer, rubber-metal-rubber
combiaations, such as sre now conmor in œertain
rotor system bearings have: been used. Ibe principal
development problens hzve baen clastomer fatigue
δ: o reveried losding (alternating tension/com-
pr.so ) at high sngle/low torque conditosu.
The basic advantages of clustomeric couplings are
high conpliance (iow shock and noise trmnsmission).
BARIED RECTAHGULAR PLATES
ORIVE SMAF1
DRIVE SHAFT ADAFTER
COUPLING ADAPTER CUTUUT AREA
Figure 4-39. Bosser Coupling
ADAPTER RE.TAINER CUP
—ÉLASTOMER ILAMINATEOI
Σ
DRIVE SHAF I RETAINER CUF
Figure 4-40. Eisstoueric Couplixg
4-78

no lubrication required, no susceptibiizy to fretting
cosrosion. and poiential savings of cost and
mainienance. Inbes:ut dissdvagiagcs are deseriora-
tion in an oily environment and sging. and reduced
critical apord due to high compliance.
5. Hooke'σ joint. The Hooke'σ or Cardan type of
univeraal joiat coupling (Fig. 4-41) is capabie of rela-
tively sigh angular misaligumeat, of che order of 30
deg 2τ voderate spoods and 15 deg at high spceds.
Howeves, unlike all other couplings discussed in this
paragrapb, the output is not α cons'ant angular velo-
city, and significant beading moments are induced in
the atisching sdapters and supporting structures.
Consequently, this type of coupling generally is em.
ployed as phase-matched peirs to cancel the ascilla-
tory angular velocity or singularly with systens that
are very soft torsionaily and hence can absorb the
angular velocity oscillation. The H-13 tail rotor drive
syatem is an example of the latter type of ap-
plication.
These couplings have no axial motion capability
and normally are used in serics with either α stiding
(involute or square tooth) or α recrculating ball
spiine. Tke input and output yokes oi the coupling
nofinslly are aitached to the cross with cupped ncedle
bearings. When these comonsnts are sized properly
for α givca torque and anguiar velocity oscillation.
ihe breakaway sliding force of the sijacent spline
usuglly is weli within the axial load capacity of she
coupling. Conmon failure rodes zre spalling of the
cup and nced'ε bearing. and fatigue fracture of the
yokes. The necdle bcarings require lubrication.
3. Gear couplingz. Gear couplings (Fig. 4-42) with
highly crowned esternal involute gear tecth :.ating
wit straight teoined internal gcal teai! have been
used on helicogt ρ.: far more extensive!υ than all
other cxupling types combined. 7:.ese coup!ings arc
capable of providisg moderztely Sigh angular mis-
alignsnent and axisl rnotion during operstion at high
speed and torqus far vary low weigtit. Common
operating ronditiozs aie 3 &eg continuous and é deg
LE F DLE BEARINGS
OKE
DRIVE SUAE !
CROSS
Figxze 4-sl. Hocke'σ Jalat (Upiesa!)