AMCP 706-292
16-2.3.5 Retnlalog Riogn
Retaining ringa, or snap rings .— scloctod in accor-
dance with MIL-STD-15I5 -- may be usod to rotain
beuring: Os soals, and, in limited applications, to re-
tain pi:s or boita. Tbe spplicetion of retaining rings
to boarings and seeks is discused further in par. 16-
3.7.2.
Bech cxternul and intornal retaining rings are
available aa taperod or reduced cross section types.
The roduced croas secticn type has a lower load
capability and, therefore, is vsed only in locations
wbere the load is not critical and where the retaining
rirg is not required to maintain a tight instaliation.
When a taperod cross soction retaining ring is used to
maiatain & tight joint, both the location and the
widti: of the snap ring groove are critical.
locatod groow in the shaft or pin. Internal retaining
rings roquire that a groove be cut in the housing bore.
The primary types and configurations of external
and internal retaining rings are described in MlL-
STD-1515. External retaining rings used as primary
fasteners shali be safety-wired in accordance with MS
33540.
16-2.3.6 Clamps and Grommcts
Clamps should be usod for holding wires, tubing.
or hoeou that are to be removed froquently. Hinge
clampe are preferred for mounting tubing or wiring
on the face of a pane!, thus facilitating maintenance
by supporting the weight of rhe tubing or wiring. For
large, plug-in asscribiics, positive-locking clamps
should be used.
Grommets shall be usod wherever necessary to
protect cables, tubes, hoae, and wiring from chafing
und o
els, or other structure through which they must run.
Grommeus are available in a variety of materials,
making it possible to select she correct material for
sach application. Grommets are covered by Mli.-G-
3036, -16491, -17594, ane -22529.
14-2.3.7 Seif-reiainiag Fasteners
Solf-retsining fasteners are used as & safety lock in
aroas where a serious hazard would exist shculd a
bolt be lout, or st zul: a jeint be broken following
loes or feilure of the threaded connection. Thcir usc
in helicopters is appiicable particularly to control
systems and dynamic systems.
Self-retaining fasteners are not to be confused with
self-locking bolts. When the self-retaining fastener is
ineortov into the holes of two surfaces to bc joined,
mechanical safetying prevents it from being removed
reedily. Thus, & semipermanent joint, which can be
164

opened thrsugh a specific artion on the part of the
uner, is obtainod evon before the nut is atlached to thre
ailow this type of fastener to fall froc. bolt. Vibration, for example, is sot sufficiont force to 275
Self-retaining fasteners of the impedan . type are
covered it: MIL-B-83050, and zelf-retaining. potitive-
locking bolts are deacribed in MIL-B-23964.
16-3 BEARINGS
16-3.1 CENERAL
Design and seloction of bearings for helicopter ap-
pications demand the consideretion of several fac-
tore: life requirements, loads and spceds imposed
upon the bearing. available space envelope, and en-
vironmental conditions.
Determination of the allowable space envelope
logically is the first step in the design of a bearing
system. Maximum and minimum values should be
obtained for the outer diameter and width, together
with the preferred values within thasc ranges.
Tne nezt, and most signifcart, design considera-
tion is the required operating life of the bearing. "e
life requirements are dependent upon the projectes
component service life, the time between overhauls
(TBO), and the level of reliability that must be main -
tsincd Because bearing failures, and, hence, bearing
lives, follow a definice statistical distribution, bearing
lives are celculatad for a given survival rate. The
bearing design life usualiy is given in tern-s of B-10
lifc, which represents the operating time that will be
excecded by 90% of the bcarings under given con-
ditions of load and speed. In helicopter applications,
critical bearings are designed for a 3000-hr minimum
life, with the sciual value depending upon the
helicopier sysiem specincation requirements. In
determining the required B-10 ife, the designer must
realize that the cquations uzed for life caiculations are
based largely on data frorn fatiguc tests of bearings
run under controlled and nearly ideal conditions.
These equations do not take into account such
adverse operating conditions as severe thern:al or
contaminating environments, lubricant deterioration,
or shaft misalignment. Where the potential for such
conditions exists, thc use of a higher calculeted
bearing life ix appropriate.
The loads and spoed imposod upon a bearing are
major considerstions in Jetermiaing the type and size
of bearing to be used. Purely radial load- may be
carried by cylindricel roller bearings. Combined
radial and thrust loads require the use of ball
bearings or tapered or sphericai roller bearings, cach
of which may be uged cithes alonc or in combination
with cylindrical roller bearings. For spplications in