Ancp 706-202
coptrols are made to high-quality commercial stand-
ards for applications not requiring Grade A controls.
Many typme of Grade B controls are available, with a
varioty of characteristics and styles of end fittings to
-oud ae up mquogddy 'ueasbeu pupde peu
vided in manufacturars' catalogs.
The advantages of the puah-pull type of controls
include:
1. Ease of Jesign and installation because they are
readily routed around obstructions
2. Lower weight and space requirements than
pulleys, bell cranka, and brackets
3. Corrosion-resistance and permanently lubri-
catod consiruction, reulting in casc of maintenance
4. A varicty of end fittings that adapt readily to de-
sired control coafigurations
5. Rondy accommodation of motion betwocn the
input and output anchor points
6. Low cost.
However, for & satiafactory design using push-pull
coatrols, the limitations of this type of sysiem must
be evaluatod and dotarmined to be scceptable. Such
consideration should include:
1. Lout motion
2. Increased system friction
3. D' ussambly roquireJ to inspect the sliding core
4. Tomporature limitations, particularly for as-
sonblias using nonretallic owale
e nq yneop
pular intervals along its Jongth (to control friction
motion)
eht disadvantage for long control
ceptable efficioncy.
stion avriiabie (strokc) from a par-
oomtrol depends upon its design ansi
o
core, de stroke is dependent simply
of core that extonds past the fixed
Mony syies of cnd fittings are
standerd coafigurations that wils ac-
ase control strokes of fron: 1 to 3 in., and
nsay be custom tailored.
16-8.2.2 Contrel Leade
The allowabls puah load that may be imposed
upon a puah-puli control is dependent upon the
maximum stroke of the control. As the stroke in-
creasos, the column longth of the unsupported end
also incroascs. and a correaponding reduction in com-
prassion loading is required. The allowable pull load
usually is equal to the maximum ratrd capacity of the
16-28

:
control, and is independent of the stroke.
As the number and sharpnass of the bonds and thc
longth of the control increase, so will the internal fric-
tion. To achieve the desired output load, the input
load must incroase sccordingly to compensate for
thess friction ossos. This factor must be considered
when solocting a typc of control. The poesibie in-
crease in load, due to an increase in friction, that may
occur during the life of the cquipment also should be
considerod to insure continuod satisfactory opera-
tion.
16-8.2.3 Core Configurations
The inner core sliding member may have a number
of configurations. The simplest form is a single
manber of high-tensilo-strength spring wire. This
type of control gonerally is uaad for light loads, and in
installations having a small number of bends of
gencrous radii (Fig. 16-11(A)).
Cores of more sophisticated construction should
be usod for controls requiring higher load capa-
bilitics, more flexibility, and minimum backlash.
These may be single or multiple strands of wire
wrapped with outer armor to provide strong but
Aexible members (Fig. 16-1 1(B) ). Othars may consist
of components that include an action elament, such
as a thin, flexibic member supportod by balls that roll
or slide in raceways inside the conduit (Fig. 16-
11(C) ). Thesc units may be custom-assemblod for
minimum friction losscs and backlaah, and high load-
carrying capabilitics.
16-8.2.4 Conduit
The outer tubular casing or conduit of a push-pull
control may be cither flexible or rigid and generally is
clamped to the basic structure at frequent intervabs. It
must be anchored firmiy at the enas in order io
achieve the desired control mction. Complete as-
semblics may consist of sections of both rigid and
fexible conduit.
The flexible outer casing usually is a built-up
member. Typical flexible construction contains an in-
ner liner of hard steel or plastic to provide a good
bearing surface for the core. Around this liner is s
structure of outer windings to provide longitudinal
compressive and tensile strength, and to maintain the
tesired flexibility of the control. This outer member
1s scalod in order to prevent moisture and other
foreign matter from entering. This scal may be in the
form of a plastic or rubber outer jacket, or of packing
between the windings.
Rigid conduit may be built up in a manner similar
to the flexible conduit, except that it uscs rigià-metal
tubing as the structural member. This tubing is bent