• : As
0-2.7.4 oarein
-smad eg gnns dnd onl saxoany
uon, siore fiuic frorn sssbzystean difiercntial venumes,
peovide for thernal expansioa and costractior. aad
mrovise for accaptablc gxternal Seakage at dynemix
soals Surieg syeiosn operatior. Tkere are several types
of reaervoirs, inchuding bootatrap. separated-sir
siaqi pecumeaid sgo-pepastoruoe pue 'porsmsvesd
tyau are discussed in sxore drtail in par. 5-4.4.2.
ARiCP No-20I. The various dstign requisesents
snd features of the reazzvoirs are Giscuosod in Μöfl-
R-Σ52 2nd Μ1Λ-R-Σ931.
η
the pump auction requirements. Then requirements
involve both Suid sccaleration and ihe prescure
nequieed to ciminats cavitation st the maximus:
speed, ρ aximupe Now, and nvinimum operatirg tem-
parature points. The pump characteristics must be
defined before the reservoir and pump suction line
can be analyzed and Gegigned. MiL-H-Σ440 defines
generel suxtion requirements: however, tx specific
pump requirements may override these.
Ths scals in the bledder eng diaparegm reservoite
ase: not conzidered dynamic in the sensc of α piston
seal. Fhe ciaphragm and blsdder do have relative
motion between themselves ans the rercrvoir. The
bootstrap reservoir does incorporate piston seals.
Where the wcignt penalty is acceptable, bellows are
preferred to dynamic scalt for the low-pressure side.
Where dynamic seals crc used, friction and life ex-
pectancy are primary consicerations. The friction
level shall be estimated conservatively and is to be
uscd in designing the reservoir to meet the accelera-
tion an-1 anticavitation requirements.
The reservoir shall include, as an integrated or
separate cicment, α relief vaive for protection sgainst
overil), in conjunction with accepting the maximum
flow back to the rescrvoir as α resu!: cf system differ-
ential during operation.
Fill provisions shall be in accordunce with Mll.-R-
5520. Filling is α function primarily of the type of
reservoir. The oper: or air-pressurizcd reservoir may
bc fillzt by hand with Aluid poures froin α can. How-
evcr, this meihod Fas obvious disadventages in that
contaminated fuid casily could be poured into the
sysiem. Scparate uir-fuid reservoirs and bootstrap
reaservoirs cannot te filled conveniently and casily by
pot :ing. Thcy require fill carts, ot equipment such as
'and pumps that can generaic positive flow at low
pressure This typc of filling normally is ac-
complished through the systen: return filter. This is
desirable because contamineted fuid will be filtered
prior tu reaching the pump iniet.
9-20

*
Tbe uec of HCd tochsiquee caecks as RLS afiste the
reaarvoir coguiramases (refer to pars. 9-2.6.1 saxl 9-
2.6.1.1). Mactianiccily. ihe Rls unis snua be iott-
grated into the derige in the optimuo manaer:
minimem extarnal dynsraic seaks, lightweigint. relie-
bie operatana, cic. Functionally. volone muas te
addrd, depending upon the specific subejrtem chy.
acteristics, to alicar for the scarco snd favit ieolation
(prccrraes.
The saction outlet should te &: the bottoan of, or
no higher these the msiidse of, the cecervoir, relative to
normal fuli leveis. In the casc of ponaeparsted reaer-
voirs. provisiuas for cegative γ-transient operation
Mgi de maie.
Fluif level indicstion stalf be in accordance with
Mil.-R-SS2C and Getail specifications.
For buotstrap reecrvoirs, the high-preuure side
passeges shali be large cnough to mgantain the transi-
enis due to rescrvoir high-volume change rate from
exoreding 3750 pai.
Provisions shals be included for an air bleud at the
highest point of the reservoir as it is installec in the
helicopier. Manun!-operation capability is required.
Conider ton shall be given to tise possibility of
autonrati. biced on startup in addition io the manual
bleed.
0-2.7.Σ Pressure Railet
Sysiem relief valves are required to provide for
possibic pump control failurc. The requirements are
covered in MAIL-V.8813, and α IMilitary Standard
(MS) series of qualified valves is available. However.
MS vaives arc in scparate housings: where integrated
modules and setvice centers are chosen. the func-
tionsl parts of the MS valve may be integrated into
the package. Consideration shoulc be given to
routing the relief flow through the hydraulic system
cooier. 'This could prevent syste.ν overheat under
conditions where the relief valve on the pump com-
pensator malfunctions. The stanc'ard system reiief
valve rarely operates, and therefore can be quite sim-
ple in design.
Where high &esponse, frequent operation, and/or
narrow rescat-full-flow requircments dictate α non-
stancard design. consideration must be given to the
dynamic performance characteristics. This will in-
clude damping provisions, such as α hydraulic
dashpot.
9-2.7.6 Pressure Regulatios
Pressure regulators or reducers generally are used
to step the systen: pressure down for use in α specific
subsystem. The detail sequirenents for these units ar-
covered by Mll-v-8566. The rai:cers may inciude