AMW MMG
0.005 in., although this is not normally α primary ob- ly. The strest-concentration effects of notches, fillets,
jective. for forging pits, surface defects, and decarburization are The operation firequently is designated
sintered phosphor bronze and α bronze bushings. The redu-ed greatly. Shot-paenin3 change to ben*-
tensile three ficial compressive the resiual stresses stresses depth of burnishing normally is limited to times
usually imposes upon α metal surface. the diameter of the hole, but the insides of tubes 10 to that grinding
the full-yield approaching residual stress roller Α higher ft Wall thickness burnished. long have been 20
1/16 wall is strength, can be obtained by strain peening. This con- is limited to no than in., unless the κ&
being is strained in backing matcrial. Metals sists of peening the surfas, while it supported properly by α
that work harden rapidly must be at α lower hard-, give tension. The surface tensile stresm that rise to
ness. corn- stress corrosion also can be overcome by the
streams induced by shot-peoeing. The brittle Roller burnishing is α machine operation in which preuion
α ductile material due to stress corrosion steel rollers is caused by cam action to im- failure of α set of
pact α surface at α rate of, perhaps, 2,000,000 blows has been associated with brass, stainless steel,
min. corn- per This produces α smooth surface, improves aluminum, zinc, magnesium, and titanium. The
roundness or straightness, and increases surface pessivc stresses due to peening are stable in low-alloy
hardness to α depth of 0.005 to 0.015 in. The surface steels to 5509F and in high-temperature steels to
0 *0.0301 may be finished to α tol-rance of in The 800 F. The effectiveness of peening in improving
kneading action tends to reduce the stresses im- fatigue resistance is ilh'stratcO in Table 17-6.
parted by prior operations, such as welding and Shot size has been standardized by SAE J444, and
machining, and also introduces α compression stress Σ70 the shot numbers range from to Σ1320. The shot
to the surface. Greatly improved fatigue and impact number is approximately the same as the di, meter of
resistance be can given to parts in this manner. the individual pellets expressed in ten thousandths of
Roller burnishing has α limited amount of appli- an inch. Cast steel shot is the most widely used
cation to external surfaces. It Α special operation using peening medium. has α useful life many times that
,.llor ,Ct na.,--•, •ρ τ •φ. -. ime is .. o "δ wJ o- α . ..-- .... . -α
employed for rolling fillets. In this case, the objective components of peening machines. Cast iron shot is
is an increased resistance to fatigue. Relatively small used in peening operations requiring low initial cost.
less. forces are 100 employed - psi or Α plain roller Where contamination with as iron is not desirable -
of oil-hardened tool steel at Rockwell C-62 to C-65 in the peening of stainless steel, titanium, aluminum,
may used to burnish be α fillet of 1/32-in. radius in an, magnesium - glass beads are employed.
about 10 passes. The rolling and pressing causes α
combined rolling and sliding action on the metal in
TOOLING 17-7 the fillet to relieve the stresses and to work η'rden the
material locally to higher 17-7.1 hardness ard GENERAL fatigue re-
sistance.
Tooling for helicopter manufactare is the responsi.-
α., .ν.-., ., an-.. -u.*aenr*,,..ρ •-υ .... α. -- -C 17-6.Α SHOT-PEENING ... • ..
fined in the contract with regard to Government-
Shot-peening is α process used on many helicopter furnished facili- tools, is unique to the manufacturin2
components to increase fatigue strength. Corn- In ties of the manufacturer. any event, configuration
pressive strcsses are induced in the exposed surface control will be in accordance with MIL-STD-480.
layers of mctallic objects by the impingement of α Tooling is α significant element of helicopter
stream of shot, directed at the metal surface at high manufacturing the cost, and the more stringent
velocity an. under controlled conditions. When the manufacturing tolerances, the more costly the -
1,articlcs individual of shot contact the nectal surface, tooling. Consequently, it is imperative that the
thoy produce slight, rounded depressions in the sur- tolerances specified by the designor be kept in per-
face, thus stretching it radially and causing plastic spective.
flow of surface material at the instant of contact. The In modern production work, where mating parts
layet of metal thus affected is 0 005 to 0.010 in. thick. art manufactured in different departments or by dif-
The surface metal is in compression parallel to the ferent contractors, some method is necessary for pro-
surface, while the underlying metal so is in tension. The ducing these parts that they will fit correctly in the
compressive siiess may be several times greater than final assembly. Appropriate standards include MIL-
the tensile stress, and therefore offsets an imposed STD-100, ANSI 84.1-1967, and ANSI Y14.5-1966.
bending. tensile stress such as is encountered in The As with airframe design, tooling design mast be
fatigue life of the parts in service is improved marked- performed in accordance with standard practices and
17.20