, decription in par. AMCP 3-3.3. 706-201, and the
Chapter 5, presntation of theoretically oriatted
AMCP 706-201.
CONTROL HELICOPMTR $-3.2
Inflight control of the helicopter, using the rotor
types cited. is provided by:
1. Momenta acting upon tho rotor hub
2. Tilting the resultant rotor lift vector
3. Α combination of these.
for I he control moment source each type is illus-
trated in Fig. Σ2. Fom the gimbaled rotor, α given
rotor tilt produces α corresponding tilt of the lift vcc-
tr, which, in turn, produces α control moment about
the helicoptcr CG. An additional control mon~elit
exists in an articulated rotor as α result of the hub
shear force acting at the flap hinge to produce α mo-
ment at the hub. In the case of the hingelcss and flex-
hinge rotors, the structural spring at the equivalent
hinge provides an additional component of control
moment et the hub.
The conventional metbod of achieving rotor con-
trol is through collective and cyclic pitch changes at
the blade roots. These changes arc accomplished
throiugh cntril Ignkagc between the rotating blades
lecmcnt (α and α swashplate structural thai con-
α pitch as blade the defines that plane fixed α stilutts
mounted arc blades Individual azimuth). of function
spindles on that provide feathering freedom for con-
trol. Collective pitch of the blades is introduced by α
scissor niechanism or by raising or lowering the
swashplate; cyclic pitch, required to produce α tilt of
the rotor disk plane, is accomplished by tilting the
swashplate.
Blade pitch changes also arc made in some rotor
systems by connecting the swashplatc to α servo tab
o α or. or .... .. ... . ...... . ..... kc. ...
servo rotor or gyro bar that in turn acts as α swash-
(or plate the main rotor,
5-3.3 ARTICULATED ROTOR
The kinematics of an articulated rotor with an out-
board lag hinge are illustrated in Fig. 5-3. Veitical
motion of the pitch link in response to swashplate tilt
as the blade travels awound the azimuth produce,
pitching rotation at corresponding the pitch bearings
to the cyclic pitch of θ-. rotor. The position of the
pitch bearings with respect to the blade lag freedom
varies with the rotor system design. In the example
(Fig. 5-3), the pitch bearing of the rotor system is in-
board of the lag axis, whereas that of the CH-46 rotor
is outboard of the lag hinge.
As shown in Fig. 5-3, the lag hinge allows the blade
to move, leading and lagging, in the disk plane. Lag

202 706 AMCP
LAG
HINGL
PITCH
LAG DAMPER
N - HINGE
,1λ, HUB ROTATION
|;igrc 5-3. Artlculaled Rotor Schematic
freedom of the blade is necessary in this particular
so design that the steady chordwise bending moment
at the blade In cquilibrium root is reduced. the lag
the pe.τ~inn of blade, the chordwise moment due to
lag the drag loads on the blade is balitcd at the
centrifugla the due to moment opposite an by hinge
in- blade. the of displacement lag the force and
dividual blade lag dampers are required to provide
energy dissipation adequate mechan- to conrol the
ical instability associated with the coupled rotor/air-
frame system as dcacribcu in par. (also see 5-4,3
Chupter 5, AMCP lag 706-201). The rigid-body
natural frequency of articulated rotors usually is
betwoen 0.20 and 0.40 times the rotor speed.
Blade flapping freedom in the articulated rotor is
J which is close located rnia ihar me, ro-δ-δ ky.
cntcrline to the rotor in order to minimize the flap
,' bending of the rotor hub (Fig. 5-3). The steady ioo-
1
"ment about the flap hinge thr from centrifugal fore
acting through the moment arni of the blade - vcrti-
cally displaced by the blade coning above the dirk
plane - is balanced by α moment of the same magni-
tude. β':τ in the opposite direction, due to the steady
4he lift on blade. The natural flapping frequency of an
articulated design near resonance with the rotor is
shaft speed. However, aerodynamic damping in the
rigid flap mode approaches 50% of critical damping.
with the ruult that the near-resonat conditioa pro-
vides an acceptable design.
Coupl;ng between flap and pitch motions is &ν im-
portant dcsigrn consideration for α rotor control
systkm. Generally, the rotor should be designed so
that, as the blade flaps upward, the mechanical pitch
5-9