" Σ,
70&-202 AWC
For flexible fir- control systems either radar- or -
optically-directed provisions - shall be made to align
and test the line of sight, the tracking line (turret
minus weapon), and the wetpon firing line parallel to
the aircraft datum line. Provisions must be included
for testing and harmonizing the fire control co-
system. coordinate wit, the aircraft ordinate system
dependent upon the is The precision of measurement
the as- and control system requirements overall fire
sociated error allocation.
-4.6.3 H
In order to provide the greatest firing accuracy, the
major components must be adjusted carefully. This is
true especially of the sight and its accessories, the
projectile-launching equipment, and the aircraft it-
self. This harmonization involves the orientation of
three reference lines in the aiicraft: the aircraft datum
line (flight path), the sight line, and the armament
line. Lugs aligned with the aircraft longitudinal axis
should be installed to provide α surface for leveling
the equipment and for establishing reference lines.
Harmonization of fixed weapon installations
generally can be accomplished by mechanical ad-
installations. ,_st.μ.lnt of the weannpn. For flexible
mechanical and electrical adjustments are required in
order to assure coincidence and alignment of sight
line and weapon line.
Harmonization techniques can be parallel, point,
or pattern; and the technique best suited to the
specific weapon type should be selected.
In parallel harmonizotion all armaments, plus the
sight line, are aligned parallel to the Armament datum
plane. Point harmonization typically is used when the
armament is installed well outboard fronm the center-
line of the aircraft or the sight location. In this case,
arii-,anit ι-σ-" rall ...... .•ht , χ . .;.γ Σ 1 I;. rtor_
sect at α point ahead of the aircraft, thus con-
€cntrating the fire of the weapons upon α single, small
is harmonization Pattern range. selected α at area
the except that harmonization, to parallel similar
parallel armament line is elevated above the sight line
by gravity drop or velocity hump corrections. All
α special use of the techniques require ν harmonizatiz taroet ( temonizatien board) as supporf equip-
tent.
ment.
COMPONENT LOCATION 8-4.7
The major points to be considered in fire control
component installation include vibration and shock
isolation, cooling and heating, radio noise inter-
ference, accessibility, electrical shock hazards, and
crash safety. All weapon system should components
be mounte¢ so that the entire travel of the shock
mounts in all directions without inter- is possible
8-10

.
ference between components. For small corn-
ponents, the shock mounts should be adequate to
support the weight of both the component and its
cable connections. The components be located xh/λ
wherc they will recive an ample supply of cir-
culating air, particularly when airborne.
components of necessary for some Heating may be
ander extremely low- control system the fire
conditions. temperature
Radio noise interference should be rhduced by
grounding the case of all zomponents securely and
filtering power supplies, and by using shielded cables
for pulse-carrying applications.
Electrical shock hazards will be reduced greatly by
secure grounding of all components.
Ease of installation, alignment, and trouble-.
shooting should considered be during equipment
design so that connectors can be disconnected readi-
ly, even under adverse conditions. Components
should not block acoess to other components. Σ'ρ-
viceability of equipment should be enhanced by lo-
cating adjustments and test points on α single, ac-
cessible surface. Where this is impossible, the use of
slideout racks to permi: removal of equipment from
Ii the corn- shodk mosnts should be considered.
(
poneni must be removed from the aircraft for ad-
justment, sufficient cable length should be available
to allow the component to be removed and placed on
α service rack without disconnecting its cables.
Great care should be taken to insure that avionic
subsystem components cannot enter crew spa= as
lethal missiles in the event of α crash. Crashworthy
component tiedown strength and/or crashworthy
barriers should be provijed in order to overcome the
lethal potential of avionic components.
Α-5 ANTENNAS
GENERAL ".11
The communication and navigation equipment δ'σ-
α variety of an. requires 8-3 in pars. 8-2 and cussed
tennas, ranging from those in the low-to-microwave
frequency spectrum to those having horizontal and
vertical polarization and those with different radia.
vetclparzioanthswthdfrntai. tion patterns. Antennas are susceptible to rotor-
induced modulation, triboelectric cl,..ging, and noise
generated by corona discharge. The combination of
electrical requircmcnts and problems created by the
platform presents the antenna designer with difficult
design requirements, Safety problems are important,
It is essential that antennas capable of emitting po.
tentially harmful or fatal radiations be marked with
appropriate warning labels to proecude fatal or
serious injury to aircrcw or maintenance personnel
during normal operation or ioutine maintenance.