copter rotor brakes have included the following
requirements:
1. Shal! stop rotor ftom 100% apced in 30 sec
2. Shall allow 1000 stops without part te-
placement
3. Must hold rotor stopped against 45-kt wind
while helicopter is not in usc
4. Must hold rotor stopped while eugines are st
idìε
5. Must not be located on α main driveshaft, or
where lining debris could cause FOD to engines or
APU
6. Activation and control shall be fail-safe.
Safeguards are required to prevent inadvertent acti-
vation. Engine control interlock required with
positive retersion in lock and unkock modes.
Development and performance historics of
helicopters aiso suggest the following guidelines:
1. The best (in simplicity, rekisbility, and safcty)
hydraulic system is α manual hydrostatic type. If
operated from or boosted by pump/accumulator
systems, these systems should be divorced com-
pietely from flighi control or sarvo actuator systems.
2. Autcmetir self-adjustment is undesirabic be-
cause it compronises reliability. Sufficient fluid
should be provided to accommodate the ascful wear
life of the linings; manual hydrostatic, dual-level,
mochanical advantage systems have bean developed
to accomplish this requicmnent (Ref. 99).
3. The disk should be stifly coupled. Α short, tor-
sionally stiff takcoff Gaive on the main rotor trans-
mission is often desirs ble. Soft mounted disks (such
as on intermediate or tail rotor gearbox drive-shaft
hangers) invariably become α vibration and antinode
cillatory ioads on disk and/or puck attachments.
These loads may causs intermittent brake chatter, dy-
nansic system overloads, or crew annoyance.
4. The puck or caliper assembly should have α
high spring rate mouning that is stiff in all loading
voctor component directions.
Fron. α practica! viewpoint, there may be imi-
tations that place two or more of thesc requirements
into conflici. Often, specification compromise or
multimode brake activation systems sre θ result.
For example:
1. Short stop time, high rotor inertis, and landing
gear skid friction limits may combine to cause ground
loop.
Braking torque Q. is
Qε = Μ3,15-φ (4-59)

3
Α4CP 706-202
wherc
*rotot inertta, slug-ft²
Ω = roicr (&ngular) deccleration, rad/sec?
and skid torque Qs is
Qs = Wfd, lb-ft (4-60)
where
Ω * helicopter weight carried on cach braked
wheci, 1β
eifoctive coeffcient of friction, gear to
ground, dimension!σ
δ irack of braked whecis, ft
For α stop time of 15 sec, rotor ineriia 1 = 7500 sitg-
φ² and Ω = 250 rpm rotor speed, Qs = 13,090 lb-st
(ignoring aerodynamic rotor decay). If cach of the
braked whecls is loaded to 4000 1β, the whcel-track is
80 in.., and φ = 0.4 (rubber sliding cn asphalt), the
skid torque Qs - 10,667 ib-ft. and therefore, α
dangerous ground loop potential wouid exist. The
minimum stopping time under such conditions would
be 18.4 sec. Α safe limit for θ.ε pilot-activated rotor
brake mode would apply aboui 9800 I5-ft of torque
to the main rotor mast (equivaleat to α 20-sec stop).
2. Although the static breakaway friction for the
disk/puck brake may be somewhat higher than that
for dynamic conditions, the severe consequences of
inadvertent rotor rotation during engine idle opera-
tivn suggest the nocd for an additional safety mar-
gin. This can be provided by use of the lower value oi
friction coefficient in design calculations. Thus, α
typical pair of engines might deveiop the equivalent
msin rotor turque of ι2,000 Ib-ft at 60% gas
generator speeds. If the safe pilot-activated rotor
stopping moce is limited to α nain rotor torque of
9800 Ib-ft in accordance with Item 1, & second brake
niode witt increased pressure (interlock-protected for
engine start szquence only) would be indicated.
4-2.2.Σ.2 Desigs asd Asalysìσ
Two basic determinations arc required for the cal.
culation of safe brake performance: (1) limit energy
rate per unit ares to yicld satisfactory wear lie and
preciude disk scuffing. and (2) disk heat cink capa-
city.
Surface energy rate varics with such lining and disk
properties as thermal conductivity, difusivity, con-
vective cooling. and critical temperature. Solid stecl
disks in helicopter applications have been operated
successfully at an energy dissipstion rate En of 25
Btu/in.²-min. The referenced arca is the swept area
under the ρ'uck. The energy to be diasipatcd is the
4-63