AN.1E 206-202
used. The various types of nonstanderd srals are dis-
cus:cd in pot. 9-4.4.6. Α34CF 795-201.
Α uscful techriqut involves ihe u:ε of dual seals
with the srction beiwse? the scals vented to the return
side of the tystcm. The first siüige is then the high-
pressur:. na). znt the recond stage must seal only ihe
Iower retamn pressures Restricior: raay be used in the
ventral sectior: in order tc int-bit large. short-circuit
leaksge lows.
Uist o. truly reúuncan' scals is α pew technique.
This invalves use of two seals in serics without vent-
ing in between. The desirner should, η. wever. insure
thet fluid canrot be trapped betw-en seals or that
:η.erm.τ effects will not cause fasure.
Backups for standard O ring seals may be eitier
stan fard scarfed or unscarfed (solid). The unscarfed
bacl.up shall be used whenever possible in licu of τ.ε
standard scarfed types.
Surfuce finish is important to seal life, and shouls
oc kept belo. 8 µin. Α 16-uin. finish may bc accep-
table for short-life applications,
Static seals generally in use are the MS standard O
rivgs with MiS standard scarfed backups. As with the
dynamic seals, unscarfed (solid) tackups are pre-
ferred uherc the diameter is large enough so that they
can be installed without damage. Α 16- to 32-uin.
fnish is requirea φ- .ε O-ring glar?σ.
The types o: seals currenitv ip usc are discussed in
par. 9-4 %.6, AMCP 706-20
9.2.7.1.4 Materials and Stress Considerazio.σ
Actuator st:ess considerations inchude conttol of
stress raice*σ and use of apprcpriate riterials with
proven stress corrosion resistance and precictable
fatigue λ:fe. [Jse of adequate internal and external
radius is highly desirabte. The finish must 5ρ kept in
ine range of ?2 rms or belcw. Α significantly rougher
πnish can off.er generous radii by introducing many
ρ.o-radius σ res: raisers.
Stechs generally have better, more consisteit
fatigue-lise characteristics than does aluminuns, an.,
.vrefore. shzif be uscd where long life is mandato.υ
anc fight safety imporart. Μ1Λ-C-Σ503 is apphca-
ble in éτ.σ easr. anc contains detail requirements in-
“luding environmental and life tests.
The lapoes spool-sieeve control valve matur'ats
may Oe ciher SAE 52100 seties steel. or cocroston-
resis.ant ste:ls such as Typc: 44ν stainiess. Tuese
μ.:ç-: Ix have π•oven suti-factory in service usage.
tat 94. C siainleas mmust Se cold stabilized to insure
unmensional stab.uty in erder to avcit suoscquent
jammirg.
-16

9-2.7.1.5 Geueral Reqpiremza35
This discussion applies primarily to flight control
acivators with integraied CAS. SAS. or sutopilot
medes of opcration. For satisfactory scrvice usage, it
is desirable that the necessary control linkage be im-
mersed in fluid inside the actuator. Jemming. corro.
sion, high friction, anc unaccepable control system
slop due to wear are problems that are climinated
and/or minimizet by this method. It also allows the
use of α rotary low-pressure dynamic seal as the
access from the external manuel control system to the
actuator internal linkage. Such α seal is considered
superior to α lincar seal bucause more efficient sexling
minimizes introduction of contaminants to the sesi.
Mechanical override of σ jammed scrvo soziuffte α:τ
appropriate margin of yicid/failure sirength in the
consrol linkage. Reliability of override supcess
depcnds upon the severity of the jam, which, in turm.
varies in some manner with size, ahape, and material
ot the jamming particle. Dependanre on mechanical
override (as the sole back-up for α jammed servo) is
not an aoceptabie techrique exozp: for small (iigh:
controi force) helicopters. Hyársulic rajundancy is
the prescribed method for lerger helicopiers.
The linkege and the 'crcc input capaoility shali be
designed so tha: chnips that may get to the control
valve can be shcared, thus α: oiding catastropht: jam-
ming of the actuator control. Generally, α 1000-lb
force at the valve spool centerline is used lo define the
Jltimar: loas-carrying capability of ihe control
system linkage between the pilot input point and the
valve spool. This is conservative, but usuaily deficc-
tion and other criteria are such that no weight pen.lty
is involved.
For stable cont:ol system operation, both with
power on and with power off, actuator stiffness can
be umportanc. The Nluid spring rate capabiity of the
aciuator is α prim.: factor, because it is generally the
softest portir.ν of the total accuator spring rate capa-
bility. Adequate stiffness may be attained in several
wa;σ. The actuator arez may be increased beyond
-uι o1 se os sssodined serurpose 10; palrbal leuy
crease the fluid spring rate. Another alternative is to
use hydraulic damper: in conjunction with actuato:
capability. Power off damping may require the ust of
separate dampers in an: eveat.
Dual actuator eperation ot α single system may re-
quire : hydrauhc bypass or anticavitation featrre.
This preve nts the pumping of fiuid bach to the sy stem
reservoir, α.δ α resulting requirerrent for α larger.
heavier rese:ve ir. Another benefn is α significant
reduction in the caergy required from the semaining
opcrative system in order to circulate fluid in the
failed system. Anticavitation can be aceomplished