AMCP 706-202
δ~ps system voltage severe could in be experienced. the AC generator is applicable generally to the DC
Wihregard tovoltage regulation, whnaspeed starter/genierator as.Ioretochvethe lightest
range approaches approximately or exceeds 2.5:1, possible weight without sacrificing mechanical in-
high-speed instability χ~ν result. Because the regu- tegrity, both aluminum τ.nd magnesium used are for
lator is called upon to overload adjust from an at low housing materials, the choice being related directly to
τ noloadoWading sped power factor loads high at θ:ehria nvironinefltrequirements.
orde 5:1.portnce.Theweight of advantage of α DC starter/
gnrtremp3oying this high-permeability material,
7-43 SrARmF/GENERATORS, DC cmaetoaunit employing silicon stiedl punchings,
CKNERATORS AND STARTERS is of the order of 20*.
Stawe-of-thc art systanms for helicopter ap- The DC starter/generator normally operates from
plications are designed for operation at α nominal stand-still 28 to speeds of rpm in 6000 irelation to starter
V. with power quality defined in accordance with the mode operating For genefator operation, speeds. it
requirsmnuas of MIL-STD-704. For the majority of ordinarily '-overs α range speed of approximately 2: 1.
applications, advantage is taken of the volumetric with ef- ryi. ι the usual 3000 minimum speed. and seldom
ficiency and lightweight properties of is applied the DC whta- maximum speeds exceed 12,000 rpm.
starter/generator. Nevertheless, there exiit many State-of-the-art DC istarter/generators generally
applications that, for various reasons, eniploy both, α employ greasL-lubricated ball bearings. For hcli-
DCgenerator and starter: DC. copter usage, thz bearing life generally falls between
1000 and 3000 hr.
The brushes that ride on the commutator and cn
Τ he construction the startcr/generator DC ι, duct the current from the pwe surc in the case of -
~comprised of α rotating artnature and stationary of the starter and to the load in the case of the - - ' field.δ The armature is constructed of Aistack of steel generator are made normally of carbon and -
uniformly slotted on the outer peri- copper. Because of altitude requiriements, the brushes α"laminations
phery; the power windingV art connected to the coin- are treated with u compound (such as molybdenum
mutator and placed are into the slots. The stationary disulfide) in order to provide the necessry filming
LOn field consists of laminated main poles, interpoles, and characteristics under χ jnditions of low oxygen and
solid steel α field ring to which the poles arc attached moisture. For starter/genecrators, brush life is limited
on tlhe Imner peziphery, to 5Μ00Δ10 hr, depending upon the severity of thec
the main poles are wound the main field win- start. For those applications requiring Senerrtor
dinga, connected either in parallel (shunt) or in series operation only, brush lives of up to 2000 hr arc po. si-
with the armature winding. The interpole coils are he..
conn, -led in series with the armature. Α fourth win- Air cooling of the DC starter/generator and
ding distributed in slots, placed in the pole faces, generator is standard prazf~ice. Contan~ι~nn" pro. -
and connected in series to tht armature serves to tection of this cooling air ic required. This cooling -
support the main field and to overcomec the do. may be accomplished by integral fan (self-cooling),
magnetizing effects of an armature of reaction to the blatt by cooling, or by α combination the two. Pre.-
magnitic field up set by load currents flowing in the cautions are necessary in order to define the cooling
* armature winding. This winding is termed the coin- conditions adequately. Becmuse of the problem of
pensatieg winding, and generally is employed with providing adequate heat transfer from the-brushes
gencertor ratings of 200 or more. Α and commutator to the oil, oil cooling seldom is em.
The starter/generator nornuilly require α fifth Pioyod.
winding consisting of single turn α in stries with the Following is checklist α minimum of in'.ormatic
armature and wound on the main, poles. This win- noo.esaary in order to dcfine ad1equately & stafter/
ding, during starter operation, aids in increaing the generator for α given application:
torque output per limpere of input current. Some Engine 1. type and manufactukcr
manufacturers leave thii, winding connected during 2. Intended installation
geerator operation an α differential compound win- Envelope 3. requirements (diameter and length)
aids Maximum digthat in the tagulation over load and fte 4. allowable weight
Maximum alIawabke overhand snpeedi range. moment 5. -
discussion mechianical the The of construction of 6. Engine mounting details
7-9