the with start frequencies, above of the At each 3. currents and voltages call for test specifications
and level power α low for adjusted generator surge the adjust specified by (18.8], those than other
the until either level generator the surge then raise is current circuit short until the desired generator
or 18.1 is reached in Table level specified current of the generator. Σ setting, Record the obtained.
4
reaches Σ•. until it
5. Insert the injection transformer over the cable un-
der test. 4. Apply the requisite number of pulses.
6. Reduce the power level of the generator to zero. 5. Upon completion of the test series verify that the
operation of the EUT is within specifications.
7. If < Si, adjust the power level of the gener- Σ.
ator until either the desired current is obtained
CW Σ.. the Apply reaches the setting or cable the on Signal
appropriate number of pulses. injection probe -Source
8. If <Σ adjust the power level of the generator Σ, Si
test under cable rnt obtained is desired circuit voltage the either until
or the setting reaches Apply the appropriate onitor probe Σ,.
number of pulses.
to V probe alternative An Impedance: of verification Alternative
means of verifying the correct functioning of the surge plotter
Receiver circuit open to measure is transformer, generator and
by 50% falls voltage the that verify then and voltage,
impedance. Measurement of cable 18.39 Fig. the trans- to load is connected resistive α 25 ohm when
former. This method is most appropriate when the
impedance of the generator and transformer is known
to be predominantly resistive.- 1000 Λ-
Modified multiple frequency approach: The ap- . 316
-^-,-/
proach starts by measuring the impedance of the cable
under test using an impedance analyzer or α calibrated ----- 100
RF receiver. The recommended measuring setup is
shown in Fig. 18.39, and α typical plot of cable im-
- -
31.6 impedance Points of Fig. 18.40. in shown pedance
---
maxima and minima should be noted as they may in-
dicate frequencies at which the system is particularly 10
--
susceptible to interference.
I Tests are made at the above frequencies, plus 50 I
50 Mhz 10 Mhz 1 and 1 Mhz distributed between frequencies logarithmically
50 MHz, the frequencies being given by
impedance. cable Typical 18.40 Fig. (18.16) 0o.0346729ξ(ν-1) = FMh,
where ν 1, 2, ... 50. = 3
18.8 Procedures for Ground Circuit
Injection The test procedure is as follows:
Position the injection transformer in α ohm 1. 100
of surges into equipment ground and adjust the power Direct injection test jig, described in [18.9],
is an appropriate way to test for the effects of setting of the surge generator to achieve the volt- points
basic test setup rises. The ground circuit the set- structural in Table 18.1. Record level called for age
is shown in Fig. 18.41. Any lead from an internal ting as Σ..
ground point is connected to the ground stud of the
the of the case connecting Cables case. equipment and test under of equipment pieces the Position 2.
installed should be of equipment other pieces EUT to cables. the appropriate them with connect
487