was confirmed above prediction The Flame arresters:
study Lockheed-LTRI part of the 1963 in the second
strikes were ap- tests, lightning During these [7.13].
fuel- from which flammable vent outlets plied to flush
knot airstream. into α 100 were exiting air mixtures
flame ar- with and without performed The tests were
which were be- flame arresters, These resters installed.
consisted protective devices, evaluated as possible ing
metal tubes in- diameter parallel bundle of small of α
as pic- vent outlet, near the the vent line serted into
utilized An alternate construction in Fig. 7.8(α). tured
flow, the fuel vapor extending into series of baffles α
was in either case object 7.8(β). The in Fig. as shown
enough the flame to cool or baffles tubes for the
it. extinguish
-
, .'INtested .
oo .0'
".10
oun"
Ouni
ftO VAM NK
(6)
configurations. arrester Flame 7.8 Fig.
construction Tubular (α)
affl cmtrucionsurge (β)
Baffle construction (β)
only possible it was showed that results The test
when airflow 100 knot in the effluent the vent to ignite
of the lip to directly delivered was arm lightning the
as as spots 'o delivered Ares outlet. vent the close
The effluent. the not ignite away did in) (I 2.5 cm
strikes by the ignited flames that showed also results
flame through the inward outlet could propagate to the
the vent outlet installed near they were attesters when
flanes somi did extinguish flame arresters While the
such they did not stop all outlet, ignited at the flanes.
lightning of the blast presures the intense Evidently
acted to force amc the flame through.

I
crash of α Boe- studies: The Research FAA/Atlantic
on Decem- Maryland, near Elkton, ing 707 aircraft
[7.14], by lightning after being struck ber 8, 1963,
of into the possibility investigation prompted another
This investiga- tank vent fires. initiated fuel lightning
Bolta undertaken by by the FAA, was tion, sponsored
with Corporation the Atlantic Research and others of
Lightning and others of the support of Newman the
work fo- [7.15]. The Research Institute and Transients
system, and vent wing tank Boeing 707 cused on the
un- the conditions objective of determining with the
flames to effluent allows of fuel vent which ignition der
surge tank duct and the vent back through propagate
objec- tank. Another reserve into the from there to and
measures, protective various of was the evaluation tive
including flame arresters and flame extinguishing sys-
tems.
program, the vent was Unlike the earlier Lockheed
that, if an ig- the rationale being in still air,
nitable effluent is assumed to be at the outlet, attach-
outlet lip of the vent arc to the of the lightning ment
ig- ignition. The in obtaining factor is the governing
of mixture α 1.15 stoichiometric mixture was nitable
propane and air.
line along the vent were installed Thermocouples
to determiiie the time at which α flame passed by, thus
The lat- front velocities. of flame enabling calculation
of operation important because was ter information
under considera- system extinguishing an automatic
time between of sufficient on the elapse tion depended
outlet and the flame α vent sensing of α the initial at
tank located in the surge of an extinguisher activation
line. (3.3 down the vent ft) about 1 ni
α that tests confirmed lightning The simulated
for ig- to the vent outlet very close strike must occur
nituioedlihtntgstrkecof17ρ.
to velocities of up flame Average Flame velocities:
the and outlet vent the between recorded were μ/σ 45
kA 175 of strokes lightning simulated when tauk
 2 2 . σ) were applied. seconds (Α - ξ aiupere 10σ 1.5 and
such as return stroke. simulated α severe These tests
were located if the vent outlet might be experienced
or lB. in Zone !Α
current the high with performed were Othmr tests
in) cm (4 α 10 through desired spot the to directed
the current as exploded tape which foil altuninuni wide
higher reached flames resulting it. The through passed
exploding but the ft/σ). in/σ. 413 to 126 velocities (up
speeds. creating the ligher flame may have caused tape
α natural than during occur severe mnov- conditions
is the where an arc alone strike attachment, lightning
ignition murce.
44 and only kA amplitude currents of When lower
2 0.001 ξ • σ λ0" Α were applied. ignitions still occurred. ι
176