can meet skins designs, thinner In recent
α saving and will permit requirements structural
weight and cost if the lightning protection requirement
mm thick skin. can be met with less than α 2.0
to required thickness skin actual the determine
hot spot formation, it is necessary melt-through or
know the maximum possible dwell time for intended
information Dwell time treatment. skin surface
tests simulating from laboratory been obtained
"sweeping" of the lightning flash channel over typical
strikes lightning natural of study from and surfaces,
aircraft.
Brick, Oh, work: Oh and Schneider'σ Brick,
decaying Α times of 400 dwell studied [7.39] Schneider
tunnel over from α wind by the exhaust arcs blown
surface with several skin panels and titanium minum
an electrical arc how long such to see treatments
to reattaching one point before dwell at actually
mph) and 112 speeds of 67 μ/σ (150 Wind next.
speeds for typical approach mph), representing (250
represen- was current The test were utilized. aircraft,
of the current portion of the continuing tative
average charge of about an delivered ning flash and
dwell time. millisecond of coulombs per 0.2
dwelled that the arcs reported The researchers
metals, both of surfaces uncoated on or less 2 ms
These surface. aluminum anodized an on me 4.8 for
time period of current times are within the dwell
therefore time would The 2 ma dwell Β, 5 me. ponent
α enter to coulombs of 4 α charge allowed have
permitted have would dwell ma 4.8 the whereas spot,
of Component coulombs of 10 charge the entire nearly
charge en- the actual Of course, spot. the enter to Β
by be determined will point attachment the tering
time. that at flash in the current of lightning level
applied usually are components the current testing,
followed first highest the magnitude, their of order
nature, the components In lower levels. successively
the worst that To ensure order. in any come can
current lightning of types various applied, been has
evaluated, be must
reattach arc will the point, at one dwelling After
in as shown aircraft on the aft farther at α point
would the aircraft times, the dwell During 7.15.
be: covered would distance and the moving,
= vtj Δ
where
(μ) drawn along surface distance arc is = Δ
velocity (mi/σ) v aircraft =
(α) time dwell = τ•
μ/σ, and with and 112 of 67 Thus, at velocities

by Brick, 4.8 me reported of 2.0 and the dwell times the
as would be dwell points spacings between successive in
given in Table 7.3.
To
resist LATER EARLIER
to % I
has.
the
HEEL
td I I to
/ <= AIRCRAFT dSURFA
and DIRECTION
OF FLIGHT
of swept-stroke 7.15 Basic mechanism Fig. alu-
reattachment.
might
Table 7.3 the
μ/σ
Times Lightning Flash Dwell Typical
Dwell Time Finish Material Surface Skin light-
2 ms < Unpainted Aluminum
5 ma < Anodized Aluminum for
and
ms < 20 Painted Aluminum
skins Same as metal CFC Com-
depends paint for time dwell Actual single
thickness paint on
the α surface, across sweeps flash lightning α As
are attached remains arc lightning the at which points the
spots bumi Spacings between spots. bum by marked In
Table given in order the of the be to found often are in
Brick the by predicted times the dwell thus and 7.4 by
realistic. tests are
basi- [7.31] Schneider Oh and of later work The case
con- airflow for uniform results these confirms cally
the cause which conditions that shows but ditions,
arc the force may surface the to leave airstream
be- point last attachment at the longer dwell to Fig.
also Schneider Oh and diverted. airflow is the be fore
resulted velocities aircraft higher that demonstrated
is stretched arc the since times, dwell arc shorter in
build to voltage sufficient allowing distances, greater (7.1)
its at insulation the down to break iength its along up
heel at an earlier time.
of the The validity tunnel tests: of wind Validity
at- flash swept for simulating technique tunnel wind
has been questioned metal surfaces tachments along
along the blow the arc used to the airstream because
186