N \
FEid penetration of α zurfe..: conducting Ak sur-
Ω face, Fir. 9.21, may be viewed α at ao*rbly of con-
field ducting Ar lmgnetic line that attempts loops.
to penetrate the surface induces α circulating current
(eddy current) that acts to oppose. the penetrating
high frequency under that is consequence The field.
conditions α magnetic field incident on α surface can
have only α taipgential component. Any radial com-
ponent is, cancelled by an induced circulating current.
Only as the 6lr(ulaiing currents die away because of re-
sistance will the magnetic field penetrate the surface.
It is this property of eddy currents that allows non-
magnetic materials to provide substantial amounts of
shielding against transient magnetic fields. That sub-
ject is explored more fully in Chapter 15.
itor
I oas
.determining diverted
flux line .Concentric
Fig. 9.21 Eddy currents in α conducting sheet.
9.8 Electric Field Effects
Changing electric fields also produce currents and
voltages, particularly upon unshielded conductors.
9.8.1 Evaluation of Capacitance
Point charge: In the space around α charged point
an electric field is established:
E V/ρ. (9.88)
V ;2 V-9"
The field is directed radially away from the point.
α on charge resides If the air): sphere (in Isolated
the sphere outside electric field ρ the of radius sphere
at were concentrated the charge though all will be as
its center. Integrating the electric field from the sphere
negligible (as at θ.! field is where point to α remote
between the gives the total voltage difference infinity)
ifphere and that remote reference point:
' (9.89) =Volt..
ρ vto 4

Capacitance is defined as:
C = (9.91) Q/V.
The capacitance of an isolated sphere is thus:
10-9
= 41reor - farads. (9.90) C
The capacitance of an aircraft could be found by
estimating the radius of an equivalent sphere. As an
example, an aircraft having α surface area about the
same as α sphere of 5 μ radius would have α capaci-
tance of about 556 pF.
Electric fields are different from magnetic fields in
α hence and α charge may have object isolated that an
Attempt- of dimensions. capacitance, iegardless finite
conduc- isolated of an the inductance evaluate ing to
difficulties, and mathematical to conceptual leads
arise with problems but no such in §9.7.3, noted
body. isolated an capacitance of the
Spheres: For concentric spheres, Fig.
9.22, the capacitance is found by integrating the elec-
tric field over the distance ρ, to ρ : 2
[ I] = 4,re - farads. (9.92) C 0
ρ2
Fig. 9.22 Concentric spheres.
Sphere Over α Ground 9.8.2 Plane
If the charged sphere is located over α ground
ground and in the charge induced will be plane there
oppo- sphere of were α there is as though effect the
ground, fields of The 9.23. Fig. below the site charge
the two charges combine to give the total electric field,
cancel horizontal components the ground plane At the
right angles to net electric field is oriented at and the
the ground plane. Evaluating the electric wield from
the sphere to the ground plane gives the voltage be-
tween the sphere and the ground plane and hence the
ground. to capacitance
259