protection in Splices joints: manufacturing at Splices
large in joints manufacturing across extend that layers
are they if overlaps larger have to may need structures
across such current transfering of means only the be to
6.50. in Fig. shown designs are joint Several α joint.
ver- to tested be should designs candidate joint Most
splice designated the in occurs transfer current that ify
which manner alternate in an not plates and or plies
de- which would debonding and arcing involve would
strength. mechanical grade
ply protection ply splice
IaCFC
(α))
7
ply protection
C•Fci CFC I
(β)pl
metal or CFC washer overlapping
protection/ contacts
.
metal , or (χ)
joint. manufacturing across Splices 6.50 Fig.
ply Splice (α)
plate Splice (β)
washers with overlapping plate Splice (χ)
fabrics: and metalized wire interwoven in Seams
protected laminates in required usually not are Splices
because fabrics, or metalized wires interwoven with
for laminate CFC bulk the on these methods depend
minimize mostly to serve and conduction purposes,
ply Protection spots. attachment lightning at damage
not therefore, seams are, across splices and overlaps
butted be may plies of protection edges The required.
laminate. of the the rest with together and cocured
nec- frequently is It fasteners: to bonding Electrical
and layers protection between contact make to essary
adjoining to current transfer of for fasteners, metal
by either done be can This substructures. or parts
fas- the and CFC laminate between direct conduction
over- in fasteners the installing by or hole, the in tener
washers) dimpled called (sometimes washers lapping
in shown concepts are These plates. doubler metal or
6.51. Fig.

or plies protection extend to' possible is rarely It
protec- the as holes, fastener countersunk into layers
laminate the with co-cured should be) (and is ply tion
conduc- Good afterwords. drilled be must holes and
tightly is drawn fastener if the be achieved can tivity
min- are barriers sealant and hole countersunk the into
tightly be drawn can head fastener the that so imized,
shown as hole, the in of CFC section cross the against
Fig. 6.51(α). in
fastener
CFF
protection washer
C7\
protection possible
(C)
protection metal
ply doubler
(δ)
to fasteners. Bonding Fig. 6.51 countersink in Bonding (α)
washer overlapping with Bonding (β)
hole and ply protection with Bonding (χ)
arcing) (allows
doubler metal with (δ) Bonding
electrically be it can shown, is ply protection α If
α or washers overlapping via fastener the to bonded
and 6.51(β) Fig. in as shown plate, doubler metal
between bond beat the afford methods These 6.51(δ).
155