prevent the ignition of fuel vapor within the system.
Tests are usually needed to verify that the possibility
of α fuel tank explosion has beer. minimized. These
tests can be performed on panel specimens represen-
tative of sections of the full scale fuel tank as well
on individual plumbing hardware items such as α
quantity probe or fuel line couplings. Once these
have been performed and the lightning protection
sign proved, further tests on α full scale tank can
performed for certification. This may not be practi-
cal for all cases. Certification in these cases may
based on the results of the panel specimen and plumb-
ing hardware tests as well as on analyses and similarity
to previous designs.
Tests which may be performed on panel specimens
or plumbing hardware include the following, with
tests performed in accordance [7.28].
Skin thickness: The exterior tank skin should
tested by high current direct attachment tests to
ify that the skin thickness and/or protection design
sufficient to prevent melt-through of α metal skin
primers, fillers, typical All skin. α CFC of puncture
and paints should be applied to the skin surface since
their presence is α factor in the degree of damage which
occurs. The dwell time of the test can be determined
by analysis or by swept stroke tests.
Access doors: Α typical access door configuration
should be fabricated into α panel specimen and tested
by high current arc attachment to determine if arcs
door. This the of side interior the on or sparks occur
specimen panel the attaching by accomplished be may
to one end of α light-tight chamber, as shown in Fig.
7.49, with cameras located within the chamber at the
opposite end. With the chamber sealed, the simulated
lightning arc is discharged to the specimen surface dur-
ing which time the camera shutters are open to record
any arcs or sparks which may occur. Following
test, the shutters are closed, the film removed, devel-
oped and then examined for light spots that would
indicate the possibility of arcs or sparks. It is helpful
to use both Polaroid and 35 mm cameras, since
Polaroid pictures provide instant data and the 35 mm
film can be processed after the test series is complete.
Are entry tests should be applied to the center
of the access door as well as to several door fasteners.
These tests will show the adequacy of the access door-
to-adapter gasket seal as well as the seals of the door
fasteners/dome nuts to prevent arcs and sparks from
entering the fuel vapor space. These specimens may
also be tested with α flammable fuel/air mixture
the chamber but, should an ignition occur, it would
be difficult to locate its source.
Vent outlets: Simulated strikes to α vent outlet should

0 be performed to determine if fuel vapor ignition can
occur, especially if the outlet is located in α direct
strike attachment zone on the aircraft. This may be
accomplished by striking α vent outlet structure which
as contains α flammable vapor mixture. If an ignition oc-
fuel curs, an investigation should be made to determine the
tests cause of the ignition. Possible corrections should be in-
de- vestigated, such as incorporation of α flame arrestor in
be the design if one does not exist. If no ignition occurs,
the vapor should be ignited manually, by α spark plug
be for example, to verify that α flammable vapor did exist
during the test. The tests should be repeated several
times to obtain additional information as to the ex-
pected probability of an ignition.
all light-tight chamber
be under tpe
ver-
is high
or current
generatr
/
return
ρ
tank fuel for chamber cight-tight Α 7.49 Fig.
tests. spark and arc skin and component
Drain valves: Α typical drain valve/skin interface
panel should be fabricated and tested. These tests
may consist of the flamnmable vapor technique in which
α successful test result is the absence of fuel ignition or
the by the light-tight chamber technique in which the ab-
sence of visible light on the Polaroid and 35mm films
indicates the lack of an ignition source.
filler the Fuel caps: Α panel should be fabricated which
includes the fuel filler cap, its mating adapter, and
the adjacent fuel tank skin. All gaskets and sealants
associated with the filler cap and its adapter should
be present. The cap may be tested with α flammable
vapor; however, the photographic technique is used
more often since it is difficult to determine the exact
cause of α failure when α flammable vapor ignition has
occurred. The test, involves striking the cap directly
in by high current arc entry.
Fuel Me esspNlians: As mentioned previously, some
fuel line couplings can conduct currents without arc-
ing ot sparking at current levels of less than 2500 am-
216