Chapter 13
EXPERIMENTAL
Introduction 13.1
Analytical techniques can seldom be relied on
the sole method of determining the voltages and cur-
rents to which aircraft wiring and avionic equipment
would be subjected. Most aircraft design programs
require some experimental analysis of the aircraft and
its wiring, either as the prir.,ary methods of analysis
as backup to analytic studies. This chapter discusses
some of the test methods available. It deals only with
the response of the aircraft and its wiring. Testing
avionic equipment is discussed in Chapter 18.
There are several different approaches to testing
of complete aircraft, each with advantages and disad-
vantages.
pulses unidirectional level High 1.
2. High level oscillatory pulses
3. Intermediate level unidirectional pulses
4. Low level unidirectional pulses
6. Low level swept continuous wave (CW)
Techniques 1 through 5 are time domain tech-
niques while the sixth is α frequency domain technique.
High level time domain test procedures can be used as
proof or verification tests; that is. tests, Go/No-Go
to make an overall evaluation of the effectiveness
protective measures. Most commonly though, tests
on complete vehicles are used only for analyzing the
response of the aircraft and its wiring while verifica-
tion tests of protective measures is done by bench level
testing, as described in Chapter 18.
The following sections will discuss the various ap-
proaches to testing. The Lightning Transient Analy-
sis (LTA) procedure will be discussed further in §13.4.
Selection of the most appropriate method is challeng-
ing since it depends on the ultimate use of the data
and the state of developmeut of the air vehicle. Α
simulation technique that imposes all features of the
lightniag in α proper time sequence is desirable, but
Slation this may not be effective for subsystems or providing
design data. It is especially important that the simu-
technique provide data on the system, subsys-
tern or component equipment or line replaceable unit

OF METHODS ANALYSIS
as (LRU) responses that can be extrapolated to the val-
ues that occur when the air vehicle is exposed to the
real lightning environment.
This chapter will concentrate on techniques for
performing low level pulse tests. Much of that discus-
or sion is, however, equally applicable for any of the test
procedures.
13.2 Basic Assumptions of
All of the experimental techniques are based to
one degree or another on certain premises:
Threat Defined 13.2.1
Α fundamental point, not always appreciated, is
that lightning testing is done primarily in terms of α
standardized lightning threat, one definable in docu-
ments, rnther than in terms of what is most commonly
produce:δ by lightning. The standardized threat, pre-
sented in Chapter 5, is intended to represent α very
severe lightning flash, though not neceRsarily the most
severe conceivable. One of the aims of testing, there-
fore, should be to determine the response of the air-
craft to the waveforms defined in that threat. Discus-
siona as to whether those waveforms are truly repre-
sentative of natural lightning is α topic to be addressed
of separately from that of how to perform tests related
to the standardized threat. Α test program may in-
volve using or discussing other waveforms as well, but
it should, as α minimum, deal with the waveforms of
the defined threat.
13.2.2 Linearity
Another basic premise is that the response of an
aircraft in flight to natural lightning can in fact be
predicted by making tests at ground level. There is
always some question as to whether this is actually so
and some investigators, recognizing the complicated
interactions of the electromagnetic fields, surrounding
an aircraft in flight during α lightning strike, refer to
ground tests as "stimulations" rather than "simula-
tions". The electromagnetic environment of an air-
craft parked on α hangar floor is vastly different from
that of one in flight.
35¶3