2. Sealant exacts α weight and cost penalty.
While applying thick layers of sealant increases
lightning protection, it also adds to the weight
of the aircraft which increases costs through ad-
ditional fuel consumption. Exact figures on the
weight added as α result of lightning protection
measures are difficult to determine since much
the sealant is normally applied to fasteners and
interfaces in α fuel tank for prevention of fuel
leaks. However, any additional sealant applied
for lightning protection adds weight at α rate
0.048 - 0.056 lb/ins.
3. Protection may deteriorate with age and constant
"working" of the airframe,
As the sealant ages it may deteriorate so that
there may be areas within the tank where the
sealant is no longer capable of containing the
arcs and sparks which occur during lightning cur-
rent flow. Some progress has been made in this
area with improved sealants that remain pliable
throughout the life of the aircraft,
7.7 Structural Joints
as fasteners, rivets or of patterns High-density
commonly used to join fuel tank skins to stiffeners,
ribs, and spars, should be capable of conducting 200
kA stroke currents even when nonconductive primers
and sealants are present between the surfaces, as in
Fig. 7.24. Short [7.49], for example, reports 200 kA
stroke tests of skin-to-stringer joint samples fastened
with double rows of taper-lock fasteners. The samples
tested had 16 fasteners on each end of the joint, and
no sparking was detected anywhere at the joint.
There is no hard-and-fast rule for the number of
fasteners per joint which are necessary to avoid arc-
ing, but α rough guideline of 5 kA per fastener, as
discussed below, can give some indication of the num-
transfer to required be which may fasteners of ber
lightning currents among structural elements without
arcing. In general, it has been found that structural
fastener configurations inside tanks and not exposed
to direct strikes can tolerate current densities Zone 3
without visible arcing and the need for overcoating
with sealant. Fasteners exposed to exterior surfaces
be protected must usually I or 2, however, in Zones
and verit - bv test.
 1
At areas of high current density, arcing usually
occurs at the interfaces between the fastener and
rounding metal, as shown in Fig. 7.25, and the occur-
rence of such arcing depends on other physical charac-
teristics, such as skin thickness, surface coatings, and
fastener tightness. Tests in which simulated lightning

currents are conducted through the joint should always
be made on samples of joints involving new materials
or designs to confirm protection adequacy.
Arc thresholds of fasteners in Zone 3 areas: Un-
der α program sponsored by NASA (7.50], tests were
performed to determine the spark threshold level of
of typical fasteners used in aircraft installations. For
those tests, aluminum lap joint specimens were bonded
with electrically non-conductive fuel tank sealant and
were also fastened with α single rivet which had been
of "wet" installed with the same sealant. Currents were
conducted directly into one end of the specimen and
removed from the other end. All current was forced
through the single fastener since the non-conductive
sealant eliminated any direct electrical contact be-
tween the mating surfaces. No coatings of any kind
were applied to the head of the fastener.
The tests indicated that the spark threshold cur-
rent level of the fasteners was 5 kA. Thus, α door
containing 40 fasteners could conduct nearly 200 kA
without spafking if the current were distributed evenly
among the fasteners. In most cases, however, the cur-
rent will not divide uniformly, but will be concentrated
in those fasteners closest to the point of attachment or
exit.
0ξ
oooo multiple rows
of fasteners 0
00
0
primer non-conducti Π or
sealant at
contacting
interfaces
Fig. 7.24 Bonding through mechanical fasteners.
Mating surfaces coated with non-
conductive finishes and sealers.
ourrent- non-conducUve
path finishes and
sealants
sur-/_ocpotential
are locti--
γ
Fig. 7.25 Potential arc source locations at structural
interfaces coated with non-conductive
finishes and sealants.
196