straps bonding Flexible on hinges: jumpers Bonding
have often 6.12 in Fig. type shown of the or jumpers
however, cases, hinges. In many across installed been
hinge Lurrent. the, reduce not really do the jumpers
to tends current lightning is that for this reason The
the rather than of least inductance follow the path
always almost and the jumpers resistance path of least
do the than paths inductive more Pand longer involve
the_hin~es. through directly paths
[6.10]- by Stahrmann demonstrated This has been
no dif- or make little jumpers bonding that who foun~δ
oc- that pitting of superfirial amount the in ference
surfaces hinges on control piano-type on typical curs
resistance dc the when even gear doors, or landing
No ohms. several as as high was hinge, the thro'gh
to found' were consequences adverse other or binding
in Stahmann'σ occurred that the pitting from result
joints, ball and hinges of piano-type tests
required are sometimes across hinges straps Bond
that arises interference electromagnetic the to prevent
be conducted must cha-ges precipitation static when
contact. The or resistive hinges with loose through
to follow unable sometimes are involved low currents
spark- that minute result with' the paths, interrupted
able to provide are usually straps occurs. Bond ing
bond sparking. If to reduce this conductivity enough
of the guidelines for this purpose, are applied straps
be followed, Fig. 6.12 should
be sure of the ability of α particular hinge de-
sign to safely conduct lightning currents, tests in which
through α are conducted simulated lightning currents
The test wave- be performed. hinge, should prototype
the the zone in which applicable for forms and current
excessive pitting, used. If should be is located hinge
to occur, ad- is found welding of the hinge or binding,
be necessary. conductivity may ditional
Bonding Resistance and Joint 6.2.5
se, some dis- effect per not α lightning While
is is order. bonding resistance on joint and cussion
"good" grounding constitutes question of what The
is still one murky and has always been iand bonding
the documents widely One of that evokes controversy.
is protection and lightning regard to bonding cited in
en bonding [6.111 MIL-Β-5087Β Standard Military US
α "good" defining to One approach and grounding.
α po- and adopt MIL-Β-5087 would be to invoke joint
"good." its criteria is that meets that any joint sition
that for lightning, requires, That standard
carry the component must "The dis.- lightning
con- risk wiithout charge flight of damaging
in ez- or producing sparking trols or voltages
0 volts." of 500 ceus

hazard to much of α did not present voltage Such α
components tube and vacuum electromechanical the
α 200 For formulated. was when in use MIL-Β-5087Β
basically volt criterion the 500 discharge, kA lightning
be greater not resistance the end-to-end that requires
ξ ohms). 10' 2.5 milliohms (2.5 than
is that the standard read into is sometimes What
have α resistance must joints purposes foi" lightning all
the term with Combined less. or 2.5 milliohms of
milliohms 2.5 can:take one standard, the in sparking
That sparking. prevent to v'ecessary the resistance as
the stan- of intent the been to have not appear does
dard.
who of those intent the been may have Whatever
so become has document the drafted MIL-Β-5087Β,
an article become to as lore ingrained in engineering
any that developed has α belief particular, In faith. of
by is, or less milliohms 2.5 α resistance of has that joint
satisfac- therefore and "good" of virtue 7Β, MIL-Β-508
Α corollary lightning. including purposes, for all tory
that design- term) is better is α belief (myth of this
that with demonstrating concerned only ers need be
Α or less. milliohms of 2.5 α resistance have α joint
is some- joints of consideration further for any request
unreasonable. and to be unnccessary taken times
resistance is that dc matter are The facts of the
whether α joint for evaluating poor criterion to use α
to carry high current The ability of α joint is "good".
STo without sparking or burning is really determ ined by
contact size, treatment of mating surfaces, type and
pressure on the the contact fasteners and number of
the factors also to be These happen mating surfaces.
is not the same but that govern joint resistance, that
of the measure is the proper as saying that resistance
current. to carry lightning ability of α joint
that resistance number to have α bonding Α desire
is under- control documents cited in quality can be
at- will not book discussions in this but standable,
might of what resistance the question tempt to answer
mostly be- quality of α joint, measure of the be α good
might be that that any number authors feel cause the
probably inadequate. be misleading and cited would
results and the to rely on experience It is much better
of tests.
of carrying capable that have proven Many joints
much resistances demonstrated have lightning current
have pro- joints but some milliohms, than 2.5 lower
resistance though the dc showers, even duced spark
shown in example is millioms. An less than 2.5 was
resistance had α plate shown The cover Fig. 6.23.
bonding of the virtue by nmilliohms, of 0.53 to test prior
violent kA produced at 100 yet α test shown, jumper
cur- α reasonable 100 kA represents sparking. Whether
the or whether particular plate, on that to expect rent
135