SI conductor
ma!:: 30
Σ-• χ •-lcm
waveshape
breakdown onset
streamer streamer ns 250 0
Fig. 1.9 Positive corona.
Gaps show and Air In applied Processes suddenly is voltage Breakdown which to α gap 1.5
It will gradually raised. voltage is different if how it is
α de- applied voltage has conditions if the also discuss that the breakdown is α common misconception It
strength of air is about 30 kV/cm or 3 MV/μ. That caying tail and explain both how front and tail times
and explain affect how fast the breakdown progresses electric field gradient at figure is indeed about the
which corona will begin to form and it is the intrinsic how this leads to α volt-time or time-lag effect.
to provide be will section aim of the basic The be- contained gaps air of short strength breakdown
un- on physical an emphasis with material tutorial any to eliminate contoured carefully electrodes tween
derstanding of electrical arcs used in testing, of light- regions where the local electric field strength is greater
than 30 kV/cm. Such electrodes are usually found ning phenomena and how lightning interacts with air-
only in laboratories. With practical gap geometries, craft. It will deal only with air at near sea level at-
electrodes spaced mainly with pressure and mospheric than α greater with gap geometries particularly and
few centimeters in extent, it is much more realistic so far apart that the field between them is far from
to assume the average breakdown strength of air un- uniform and in which the metal of the electrodes and
der lightning conditions to be about 5 kV/cm or 500 the vapor from them can play no significant part in
kV/μ. With longer duration waveforms the average the breakdown process.
breakdown strength may be more on the order of 3 Also, the section will focus on the phenomena that
kV/cm. With short duration pulses the breakdown occur when the electrodes are directly connected to
strength may be much more than 5 kV/cm, but such α α voltage source that supplies the energy necessary
condition usually means only that α developing break- for the development of the arc and the electric field
down has not had sufficient time to progress to final through which it propagates. On an aircraft the dis-
breakdown. With α large gap, such as found around charge may originate at the aircra'τ and the energy
an aircraft in flight, any place the macroscopic electric necessary for the development of the arc must be ex-
field has α gradient greater than 500 - kV/μ is 600 tracted from the pre-existing electrical field. There
α place where one can assume that α breakdown is in are some differences in the two processes and these
process or is about to be. differences are discussed in Chapter 3.
The following material will illustrate why the
Voltage Types of Sure 1.5.1 breakdown strength of air has this surprisingly (to
some) low value. The section will discuss the con-
ditions under which corona streamers can continue to When discussing the breakdown strength of air it
grow until α gap is completely bridged. It will dis- is common practice to refer to lightning surges, switch-
cuss the mechanism by which the streamers develop in ing surges and power frequency voltages. The terms
8