It is performance. good shielding of getting the price
(but not cable measurement bring the to preferable
Fig. the box, α hole in through shield) external the
car- the signal for connector bulkhead but α 13.20(α),
13.20(β). If Fig. satisfactory, is frequently cable rying
should shield overall used the is connector bulkhead α
on the not the connector, around α shell on terminate
over- the Grounding 13.20(χ). Fig. itself, connector
13.20(δ). Fig. α pigtail, through to the box all shield
avoided, be should
mii-1, cable measuring the on shield overall The
against to protect in order end each grounded at be
discussed is shields Performance of fields. magnetic
15. in Chapter more fully
. -il &U .
ω
•whereby •• ' τ~τ
we
(δ)
α into cables bring to How 13.20 Fig.
shielding enclosure.
Best (α)
(β) Good
Poor (χ)
(δ) Worst
dif- Measurements with measurements: Differential
the ef- to minimize way are another amplifiers ferential
Two cables. measurement into noise induction fects of
to point the measurement from are brought signals
one from oscilloscope, in the amplifier α differential
from α the other and investigation the point under
in Fig, as shown to that point, point adjacent ground
are sub- two signals the the owillowcope At 13.21.
be induced on both noise will Since the mime tracted.
same follow the they measurement cables (assuming
noise free. should be the result they should). path, as
γ" Uft*
WA _may
.
Ω
Differential anmplifier,. Fig. 13.21

and not α panacea are measurements Differential
mea- Differential in order. are of caution words some
mode of common in terms are rated surement systems
the or of balance measure is α which ratio, rejection
get and signals noise identical two to subtract ability
are commonly of 10,000:1 ratios Rejection zero output.
if that This means pre-amplifiers. for differential cited
of the input to are applied signals 10 volt identical two
be dis- will 1 millivolt than no more that the amplifier
guaranteed only usually is ratio rejection This played.
differen- to balance The ability frequencies. low for
and frequencies at higher harder becomes tial circuits
high at less be much may rejection common mode the
too is common mode voltage the if Also, frequencies.
into α be driven or saturate may amplifiers high the
be can operation differential No operation. non-lin.ar
those conditions. under obtained
only ob- ratios α-re mode rejection High common
for differ- constructed specifically in amplifiers tained
provision Many oscilloscopes have α operation. ential and the can be inverted of two signals one
is same as is not the operation Such α4ded. results
for dif- configured specifically by an amplifier provided
voltage limit mode The common operation. ferential
re- common mode and the voltages at lower is reached
jection ratio is seldom as good as obtained in true dif-
performance differential the Still, amplifiers. ferential
purposes. most for adequate perfectly is
the oscil- performance of differential the Finally,
measure- the external if can be compromised loscope
all Considering balanced. probes are not well ment
fre- the high count on not normally one should factors
than being better ratio rejection quency differential
100:1. about
be must oscilloscope The measuring dcrcuts: Trigger
from dis- resulting voltages display the to triggered
of several ways are There generator. the LTA charging
way is The preferred on Fig. 13.22. as shown doing so,
and the LTA generator signal from α trigger taking by
cable, coaxial along α oacilloscope it to the carrying
carried into signal is to be If the trigger Fig. 13.22(α).
Fig. 13.22(β), isolating transformer, an aircraft, the
Al- cable. with the trigger in series be connected must
can be signal the trigger 13.22(χ), Fig. ternatively,
along generator optic link. The LTA carried α fiber
emit enough high frequency noise to allow one
from an electric the measuring oscilloscopes to trigger
field antenna. Fig. 13.22(δ). of This method trigger-
as not provide but may simplicity, virtue of ing the has
meth- previous as the consistent triggering or reliable
to be triggered oscilloeope allow the it may ods. Also,
electromagnetic interference. of other sources from
may have to techniques, delay With any of the
368