ever current crosses joints and couplings, there exists
the possibility of arcing or sparking. Since so little
energy is needed to ignite fuel, the behavior of these
internal currents is of great importance to fuel systemn
safety.
Arcing can also occur, at some instances, when
lightning currents in the skin encounter discontinuities,
such as access doors and filler caps. Electrical wires
in fuel tanks pose another potential sparking problem
because high voltages could be produced by the high
electromagnetic fields associated with lightning,
Fig. 7.19 shows the possible lightning current
paths in a typical fuel tank and calls attention to the
areas of greatest concern. In the following paragraphs
each of these areas is discussed. Areas of concern for
which little or no quantitative data is yet available will
also be discussed,
7.6.1 Filler Caps
Problems: Filler caps must be fitted with gaskets and
seals between the cap and its adapter in the tank.
Most of these seals have little or no electrical conduc-
tivity. If a lightning flash contacts the filler cap there
may be a spark across or through the seals. The spark
may then generate sufficient pressure to blow plasma
past the seal and into the fuel vapor space.
Fig. 7.19 Lightning
and potential

Newman, Robb, and Stahmann [7.47] were among
the first to recognize this possibility and evaluate it in
the laboratory. They demonstrated that direct strikes
to filler caps of the design then in common use would
cause profuse spark showers inside the tank. They ap-
plied simulated strikes, which ranged in energy from a
2 very mild 35 kA, 0.006 x A .s stroke to 10s a very severe
2 180 kA, 3 x 106 A '. stroke, to typical fuel filler caps.
Profuse sparking occurred under all conditions. When
an ignitable fuel mixture was piaced in the tanks, these
spark showers readily produced iguition.
Newman and his colleagues did not report spark-
ing or fuel ignition when the same filler caps were not
struck directly but were only located in a tank skin
through which lightning current was being conducted.
Other literature does not report such sparking either,
but the possibility of such an occurrence might still
exist under some conditions.
Protection techniques: After observing the sparking
from direct strikes to the original filler caps, Newman
evaluated several design modifications to prevent this
sparking. Fig. 7.20(a) shows where sparking can take
place on the inside surfaces of an unprotected filler cap
while Fig. 7.20(b) shows a design intended to prevent
internal sparking.
SKINS, BETWEEN JOINTS
RIBS SPARS, AND
JOINTS AND INTERFACES
IN LINES & FITTINGS
DOORS ACCESS
AND
FILLER CAPS
AND WIRING
current paths in a fuel tank
problem areas.
191