The program GEMAX (General Electro- GEMAX:
magnetic Model for the Analysis of Complex Systems)
a MOM integral equation solution for low frequen- uses
cies and the geometrical theory of diffraction (GTD)
for high frequencies [10.47 - 10.49]. For lightning inter-
actions the frequencies are low enough that the integral
equation approach is appropriate. The method has
been used to study lightning coupling to a helicopter,
the analyses being made in the frequency range 0.5 -
10 MHz. The lightning stroke was modeled as a con-
ductor 20 times the length of the helicopter, though
since a lightning channel is actually much longer, do-
ing so may lead to resonant behaviour not truly ap-
propriate for interaction with lightning. No lightning
transient results have been published, again perhaps
because computation at all the frequencies required
for a Fourier transform is too expensive,
NEC: Another integral equation code which might be
of some use for analysis of lightning effects is NEC
[10.50 - 10.54], "Numerical Electromagnetic Code."
The program is designed mainly for antenna and EMC
work and no applications for lightning analyses seem
to have been published.
None of these frequency domain approaches have
been mated to techniques for determining the fields
coupled to the interior of the aircraft or for determin-
ing the response of circuits inside the aircraft to such
fields. They have only been used to determine the elec-
tromagnetic fields on the surface of the aircraft, after
which the fields coupled into the aircraft have been
analyzed as a separate task.
Codes Difference Application of Finite 10.8
Modeling Linear
finite of how the will show examples This section
two research been used to model have codes difference
aircraft; the F-106B operated by NASA's Langley Re-
search Center [10.29, 10.30] and the CV-580 operated
by Wright Patterson AFB and the FAA [10.31]. It will
deal with linear modeling; that is the response of the
aircraft to an assumed lightning stroke. §10.9 will give
exampler of how the codes have been used to predict
the response to triggered lightning.
of the Aircraft Modeling 10.8.1
The way the F-106B was modeled as an assem-
blage of cells was previously shown on Fig. 10.22, that
figure also showing the coordinate system and the lo-
cation of several electromagnetic field sensors used on
the aircraft. The large scale nature of the aircraft is
well resolved, but it is clear that details, such as the
nofe boom, are not well resolved. This can cause dif-

ficulty when field distributions around such points are
desired. In most cases, however, the model as shown
sensors of a is adequate to predict the response at the
given lightning event, partly because the sensors were
with a large radius of intentionally placed on surfaces
curvature, surfaces which are easily modeled.
Problem space: The problem space (see §10.5.1) into
which the aircraft was placed was about twice the size
of the aircraft itself and was divided into a grid one me-
ter in X dimension (fore and aft) and one-half meter
in the wing to wing and vertical dimensions Y and Z.
The temporal resolution of the model was 1 nanosec-
ond. The nominal frequency resolution of the mesh,
assuming a minimum of five cells per wavelength, was
thus approximately 60 MHz. The model was placed
in the problem space in such a way that all tangential
electric fields were zero at all times. This implies that
the aircraft was perfectly conducting, with no signifi-
cant apertures which would alter the field around the
aircraft. This is a good approximation except for the
immediate vicinity of the cockpit.
Representation of The three dimensional fi- CV-580:
nite difference representation of the CV-580 is shown
in Fig. 10.25 (10.56]. Also shown are coordinate axes
and the locations where the electromagnetic fields were
calculated, these corresponding to the locations where
field sensors were located on the actual aircraft. The
angles Band are used to specify the direction of 0 the
ambient electric field for the nonlinear model discussed
in §10.9. The spatial resolution of the model was one
meter in all directions and the time step used was 1
dimen- was of used space problem The nanosecond.
of the extremities the cells, putting 41 x 22 48 x sion
aircraft eight cells away from the nearest boundary.
allows a separation that about the minimum This is
problem. of the scattering satisfactory simulation
10.8.2 Necessary Assumptions
There are a number of assumptions that must
be made when using the linear transfer function tech-
nique. These are discussed individually below.
Lightning attachment locations: The places where
aircraft must be defined to the attaches the lightning
in advance since they constitute part of the initial con-
ditions. Also, they cannot change with time since time
dependent geometry is not consistent with the assump-
tion of linearity. Any realistic condition requires that
there be multiple channel attachments, but only one of
these can act as a source injecting charge onto the air-
craft, though there may be multiple channels to drain
charge away. Having more than one source does not
290