(4%,) INz Μ)
Fig. 7.46 Current distribution patterns in α CFC wing.
- Τ 4 microseconds, 900 ampere current =
- Strike to the static discharger.
Α 151λ
* (170%)
Σ~(53%)
of light aircraft example, the tanks. For of fuel will gen- skins thick 0.150 inches epoxy skins Graphite
tanks con- fuel wing tips containing has FRP Fig. 7.48 lightning strike sustaining α severe capable of bc erally
have suffered tanks These aviation gasoline. tamning material, or Thinner or cracking. puncture without
lightning strikes. due to explosions in-flight sur- several the exterior paints to of primers and the addition
tanks of these the result are probably The explosions and action amplitude peak current lower the face, will
and 2Α. in Zones lA being located with- sustain skin can successfully which the integral
tank an aluminum that contacts arc Α lightning protec- Lightning ignition hazard. out creating α fuel
attaches to while one that the skin, melt through may may These to be employed. might need tion methods
puncture may conductive composite of α tank made. of flain. consisting protection surface include exterior
non- of electrically fabricated For α tank the skin. fabric mesh, metallized woven wire spray metals, or arc
flash will the lightning however, material, conductive into the outer wires woven use of thin tape, or the or
cho- either: afforded by the method The protection ply fabric.
electrically to an skin and attach the 1. Puncture discussion test. Α complete verified by should be sen
or the skin (tank), inside conductive object above is found mentioned methods of the protection
Chapter 8. in
. Tnks2. ?.I•NonConuctie and attach skin non-conductiv, the Divert around
7.12NonCondctie '1uhsto the adjacent conductive skin or to some other
object. mate- non-conductive cases electrically In some
it is not the exterior surface, remains on the arc It (FRP) are plastics such fiberglass-reinforced us rias,
that α fuel such wili daiaged that the skin for likely composites conductive of metals or instead he use
213