Fig. 4.14 Evidence of lightning attachment to
canopy fastener and scorching of canopy.
In addition to the direct effects described in the arc conducting only one ampere or so of current is
preceding paragraphs. replacemnent~ of mnetallic skins sufficient to ignite flammable hydrocarbon fuel vapor,
with nonmetallic materials removes the inherent pro- yet lightning flashes inject may inject thousands of am-
tection against electromagnetic penetration field that peres of current into an aircraft.
is an important by-product of aluminum skins. Elec- There are several dozen civil and military air-
trical wiring and electronic components enclosed in- craft accident~s on record which have been attributed
side nonmetallic skins art- therefore likely to he much to lightning ignition of fuel. Examples are discussed
[4.141. more susceptible to the indirect effects of lightning in [4.131 and Although the exact source of igni-
than those inside metallic skins unless specific inca- tion in each case remainis obscure, the most likely pos-
sutres are taken to reduce this Fsusceptibility. sibility is that electrical atrcing or sparking occurred
soine structural joint or plumbing device not inten- at
voltages: IR Airframies tabricated of CFC also have tionally designed to conduct electric currents. Some
substantially more resistance than dto aluminumn air- accidents have been attributed to lightning ignition of
fratmes, and large potential differences, IR volt- called fuel vapors exiting fromt vent outlets. but this has never
ages mnay arise bietween vatrious locations in air- ani been positively established.
framie, contribuittig futrther to indirect effect% In addition to the direct effects described above, on elec-
trical and avionic systems. further A (lescription of there are several instances in which indirect effects
indirect e~fferts found in ý4.7 and disc~it.sionis ha- have tvidently accounted for ignition of fuel. is Light- of
S. sic mechanisms are providledi in C'hapter niiig induiced voltages in aircraft electrical wiring are
in believed to have resulted sparks, for example, across
Systems Effects on Fluel 4.4 Direct electri- fuel probe or some other it capaicitance type
Chl object insidIe fuel tanks of several military aircraft,
Aircraft fuel systems represent one the of most5 resulting in loss of externlal tanks in sonme ses and
critical lightning hazards to flight safety. An electric the~ entire aircraft in others. Capacitance type fuel
7S