of milliohms, 2.5 resistance summary, joint a In a hazard, depends really represents sparking observed
not, of itself, does reAistance, other specific or any the structure expected in to be total current on the
or not suitable either suitable the joint is prove thai conduct this available to number of fasteners and the for
lightning ic involved. where application any particular current,
configuration joint or fastener of any The adcquacy that had been joints theta have At other times,
must be determined carry lightning current to safely 2.5 ntlliohms, yet would much greater thai. resistance
of levels representative laboratory test at current by the particular appli- adequate for have been perfectly
cri- resistnce threat. No dc lightning full specifed the cation,
reliably that can exist terion or analysis pr'mcedures
occur of arcing will arcing or the effects when predict
joint. at a particular
Composites Non-Conducting pla,,te 6.3
S surge generator s sparks While lightn~ing protection of metallic structures
Sbolt
is mostly a matter of attention to detail and does not
lightning protec- much cos or weight, incur b-usually
en- is another matter structures non-metallic tion of
be considered from protection must tirely. Lightning r [ gaet
unexpected involve may such protection start and the
added or may involve costs program and unwelcome
be in particular must weight. Radomes materials and
them from lightning. to protect attention given special
insulating material made from of necessity, They are,
the of on extremities are mounted because they and
for lightning. targets they are natural aircraft
ma- aonmetallic of types basic several are fromtestThere Spark Sparks from structures; non-conducting in aircraft terial used t
a tpso uneali ThrNreovrltai connection.
thi3 section, and electrically covered in composites, germane to discussion.
in §6.5 and covered materials, composite conductive
fiber rein- materials include §6.6. The non-conducting
and fiberglass, fiber and such as aramid forced plastics,
acrylics. and such as polycarbonates resins, non-filled
windshields, aj particularly xor Glass is also employed,
in §6.4. discussed
in many composites are employed Non-conductive
em- wing and as radomes, structures such secondary
medium strength fins, where fairings and pennage tips,
read- be more shapes can and coinplex sufficient is
be skins must or where than fabricated ily molded
Polycarbon- and radar waves. to radio transparent
wind- canopies and are used for and glass ates, acrylics
is desired. transparency where optical shields
Effects Damage 6.3.1
insula- electrical are composites Non-conductive
em- When current.. lightning cannot carry tors and
often punctured are skin, they as an exterior ployt.d
object some metal that contacts flash lightning by a
stroke return amplitude The high skin. the beneath
to damage holes and in large then result can currents
4. Radomes in Chapter as described these materials, a joint piece having from a test 6.23 Sparks Fig.
devices are sub- protection with lightning not provided milliohms. resistance of only 0.53
de- example of a radome and an puncture ject to such Geometry (a)
stroyed by puncture was shown in Fig. 4.11. (b) Photograph during test
136