170Ω 130E 7OE IME 50Ω 110Ω 170Ω
40
\So
2(2
600 130 0 β SW 10 60Ω
20 20:
the world 12.291. 2.42 Isokeraunic level of Fig.
Lightning location: will intercept all that α structure of height Another type of instrument [2.31 sumed ε η
the ground over α that would ordinarily strike to both the elec- flashes uses antennas to respond 2.33] -
illustrates the geometry. circle of radius Fig. 2.43 changes produced by lightning, tric and magnetic field 2η.
of the one can determine the bearing since by doing so
of such instruments flash. Linking networks lightning
7
"hedd/ in near real time. The instru- ted on α map, usually sile
~, rgo regio η be used to determine the waveshape ments can also
/ " • of the lightning strokes. Networks and peak amplitude
of such instruments are now to be found in several re-/,
ι. /// ///////// USA and in due course should provide gions of the
2 on the frequency of much more accurate information η-_1-
• η"• - η- lightning in various parts of the country.
areas. Fig. 2.43 Shielded The number of light- flashes: Number of lightning
object depends strongly nling flashes to anly particular
Ob- which the object is situated. on the terrain upon
determine analytically how It is not as easy to are more prone to be struck jects on the crests of hills
Field experi- in flight will be struck. things consid- often aircraft are objects in valleys. All other than
guide. Commercial seems to be the only reliable that α given object will ence ered, however, the probability
the United scheduled service in covered by that ob- aircraft in regularly depends upon the area be struck
year. frequently while are struck about once per ground the strike inter- States ject. For objects flat upon the
usually or holding patterns, and in takeoff, landing, as directly equal to the area ception area can be taken
ft. altitude. Trans- while flying at less than 15 000 object on the ground, covered. If there is α protruding
while at cruising al- aircraft are seldom struck upon the height port interception area depends the stroke
of course as α result of the as- titudes and speeds, partly accuracy, it can be of the object. With reasonable ε
37