reduction speed, a cruise to 25% of "From
allow will often airspeed in static the 30%
and maximum a lower at buildup stabilize to
dissipate rather than discharge. build- These
buzz- by a accompanied generally are -ups
and high frequency) VHF (very on type static
a ran- and finding) direction (automatic ADF
swinging dom I needles though the ADF of
have observed a to hold needles the ADF
level static 900 the of as error to up steady
just generally peak, near its at or stabilized
or beginning prior of dissi- discharge to the
pation."
level the freezing through or descend "Climb
as quickly as possible."
way no of know I precipitation. all "Avoid
will a discharge where accurately predict to
occur."
speed, change safe to minimum down "Slow
(200 -7*C temperature of avoid to altitude
0 (35° 2 C F)." F) to
and both. route detour, excessive without "Not
altitude."
encountered have I discharges static "The
preclude would which a rate up at built have
tactics seconds)." 15 (3 to avoidance any
to when known never this have expect I "No,
until just prior to the discharge. "
the static jets. Once the modern not in "No,
very quickly." follows discharge the begins
train- ... at the received information "All
and discharges to applicable static center ing
accurate completely been has avoidance their
helpful." and
on!" hang "No,
"Lead clean life." a
pilot opin- of divergence wide is a there Thus,
lightning strikes. avoid way to the best regarding ion
is possi- it sources, other and many this from However,
prior just present often most symptoms list the to ble
actions (if and the strike, lightning a to experiencing
possibility the reduce take to pilots most any) which
a strike. of receiving
a combina- when is imminent lightning strike A
is present. follow which symptom3 of the some of tion

Symptoms:
following: the of vicinity the in or through Flight 1.
Unstable air.
front. Stationary
Cold front.
front. Warm
line. Squall
a cloud. 2. Within
of precipitation. 3. Icy types
near C. 4. Air temperature 00
static. of :'adio buildup Progressive 5.
dark). (when fire Elmo's 6. St.
turbulence. Experiencing 7.
8. Flying at altitudes between 1500 and 4500 m
m (11 3350 most prevalent: ft); and 15 000 (5000
ft). 000
or descending. Climbing 9.
Actions:
precipitation. heavy of areas Avoid 1.
2. Change altitude to avoid temperature near 0°C.
cockpit lights. Turn up 4.
downward. keep eyes pilot one Have 5.
circum- precludes often congestion traffic air Since
poses often diversion since and precipitation of vention
de- a neither is desirable, while avoidance, hazards,
air- protecting the of means adequate an nor pendable
therefore, aircraft, The lightning strikes. against craft
strike lightning withstand safely to designed be must
effects.
Occurrence of Frequency 3.3.5
aircraft: lightning strikes of The number Commercial
pis- for hours to flight related as actually occur, which
in is tabulated jet aircraft. pure and turboprop, ton,
13.21 Perry and of Newman the data on 3.3 based Table
of one average an that it follows data this From (3.6].
for of flight hours 3000 for each expected can be strike
aircraft. transport of commercial type any
49