cribed to the growth of α streamer that leads to
ization in the gas and is separate from any processes
taking place at the electrodes. Whether the streamer
leads to α complete breakdown between two electrodes,
or is confined to the localized discharges called corona
depends to α considerable extent on how the electric
field is distributed across the entire gap. The localized
corona discharge will be considered first. It occurs
when only the region around the electrode is highly
stressed; that is, exposed to α sufficiently high electric
field, 25-30 kV/cm.
1.4 Corona
Corona, Fig. 1.3, is α glow discharge that forms
around conductors when the surface voltage gradient
(rate of change of voltage with distance normal to
surface of the electrode) exceeds α critical level, about
30 kV/cm in air at sea level atmospheric pressure.
can also form on grounded objects exposed to α
electric field from some remote source such as high
voltage conductors or charged thunderstorm clouds.
It also forms on the masts of ships and on the
tremities of aircraft when they are charged by flying
through clouds. Then the phenomenon is commonly
called St. Elmo'σ fire, but the mechanism is the same
as that observed on high voltage conductors. Corona
is α localized discharge, but can be the precursor to
complete breakdown, and can be α prolific source of
interference in radio receivers,
Fig. 1.3 Corona.
1.4.1 Negative Corona Processes
The negative corona process occurs when the clec-
trode upon which the corona forms is subjectd to
sufficiently large negative electric field, α negative field
.
being defined as one in which an electron in the space
around the electrode is forced away from the electrode,
Fig. 1.4. Α common situation involves the electrode
being connected to the negative terminal of α power
supply while the positive terminal is grounded. The

ion- negative electrode need not be directly connected to
α power source however; the electric field may be cre-
ated by induction from other charged electrodes. Con-
sideration of where the other electrodes are located
is rather academic since the important matter is the
electric field in the immediate region of the conductor
upon which corona is formed.
electrode
field lines
"electron
K - .
' -
the
It Fig. 1.4 Motion of an electron in α
high negative field.
Because of some initial ionization process, an elec-
ex- tron is liberated in the gap. Under the influence of
the electric field the electron is repelled away from
the electrode. As it is repelled, it collides with the
gas molecules and α flood of other electrons is trig-
gered by the avalanche process described in §1.1. This
leaves α cloud of mixed positive and negative charge,
Fig. 1.5(α). The electric field forces the electrons away
from the space where the avalanche is formed and so
point - + +
no light light
++
4
+
α +
46 EDP
positive ions negative ions
sweep into sweep outward
electrode and are lost
Fig. 1.5 Motion of ions for negative corona.
3