S
a factor of 200. extrapolated by that results be and quires of 500 - 1000 amperes on the order with currents
de- tests aie LTA for Measurement techniques standard- of the that like nearly as waveshapes using
to applicable of course They are, §13.4. in scribed of the Virtues as possible. environment lightning ized
levels. current at higher made tests can be transported equipment that test are technique
to rebuild surge gen- one package without the need in
described techniques pulse The pulse: Shock-excited testing of amount a large that site, and on erators
the surge of connection metallic involved above have is equipment the since short time, in a done be can
have tests that the and for the aircraft to generator gen- the surge is that virtue Another operate. easy to
gen- intent has the those techniques made using been radiation and incidental shielded can be well erator
mag- aad of resistively the effects to assess erally been us- suppressed can be well gaps spark from switching
the only involve voltages. These generated netically en- the housing package in the components small ing
been has No attempt aircraft. into the injected current voltage since all high storage capacitors. Finally, ergy
of the surface levels at field electric duplicate made to enclosure, shielded in a contained can be components
safety for reasons of in fact, aircraft. Generally, is the high voltages to dangerously of operators exposure
to made attempts and grounded has been aircraft the minimized,
and the return voltages between the aircraft minimize voltage LTA pulse test- The main drawback to low
of keeping the effect have the both of which circuit, by be extrapolated results must that measured ing is
field intensity low. from a test per- electric Extrapolating results large amounts.
of 200 kA re- at 1 kA to a full threat current formed
R Pat Lva
2.50 spark 2 uH , .. [ S~~~ap
tstr Mterge 1 S'
i aircraft t taic fa T
700
a up
tio to reisieensmgetsfildcupirsabe
Rea p
generator. surge level Moderate 13.13 Fig.
addi- in exists coupling field electric that fact The 7000
field coupling has been tion to resistive and magnetic 7000
environ- recognized, but the standardized lightning
no recog- indirect effects makes ment as it relates to
and imposes no specifications nition of electric field
this is because the electric field regarding it. Partly
consequence than have been felt to be of lesser effects
finn there is little partly because effects and other
such to base specifications. should knowledge on which
specifications be desirable.
smne of the early full- Questions surrounding
test technique, led to the shock-excited . vehicle tests " 0
under - 13.11) in wh;ch the vehicle Fig. 15, [13.10
an excited at one point through test is insulated and
a to vehicle the raises suddenly This arc. electrical waveform, Current Fig. 13.14
363