of orientation The field: magnetic of Orientation
H field vector is always at right angles to the direction
gaps in the struc- current vector. While small of the
the gap, current around 10.4) direct the ture (Fig.
directly except unaffected, field is virtually magnetic
com- is small scale that length on α and on the surface
interrupting the the gap of dimensions to the pared
current flow.
I ON H IS HIGHEST
LEADING TRAILING AND
Emost
LOWEST H
H
SHIGHEST
with field strength Variation of magnetic Fig. 10.3
aircraft radius of curvature,
•at 'τ \ ~
'•
\ '
Α . •transients, -
SHINGE
AILERON
\-SLOT INTERRUPTS
~; FLOW CURRENT \ WING WU Titself,
CURRENT
il STREAMLINES
(α)
I /to
HSI Hhundreds
H
'Fig.
(
Fig. 10.4 Current flow and magnetic field around
structural gaps.
(α) Current entering typical wing
virtually field magnetic Resultant (β)
unaffected by slot interrupting flow
of current

cur- average the show to 10.6 suffices Eq. While the
rent density, and thus the average intensity of the mag-
current is dis- it does not show how the netic field,
must be This distribution the surface. tributed over the
resistive voltage rises both the it affects known since
or elec- of magnetic the amounts and α structure inside
apertures. through penetrate which tric field
Redistribution of current: Only for direct currents
de- conductor of α at the surface density is the current
termined by the dc resistance of the conductor. For
transient conditions the distribution is primarily
controlled by magnetic effects. The magnetic distri-
bution of current density can be calculated in simple
geometries. Around the periphery of α cylinder, for
example, the current density even for alternating cur-
rents is uniform, at least Ls long as the return path for
that current is far removed from the cylinder - greater
cylinder. of the diameter the ten times than
For anything other than α cylinder, the phenome-
current to force an alternating non of skin effect tends
to crowd toward the edges, making the current den-
sity and magnetic field intensity higher than average
places with α small radius of curvature (leading and
trailing edges of α wing for example) and less than av-
erage at places with α large radius of curvature. With
the skin effect forces the current to initially
concentrate at the edges in α manner that results in
the magnetic field being tangential to the surface, as in
Fig. 10.5(α). The current then gradually redistributes
with the distribution ultimately becoming con-
trolled by the resistance of the structure. This resistive
distribution leads to some of the magnetic field pene-
trating the surface, Fig. 10.5(β). The rate at which the
current redistributes over the surfacc is governed by
the ratio of inductance (α measure of magnetic fields)
resistance of the structure. It takes place faster
for high resistance structures, such as those fabricated
from graphite-epoxy, than it does for low resistance
structures, such as those fabricated from aluminum.
The time required for the current to redistribute from
α pattern governed by magnetic field effects to one
governed by resistive effects can be surprisingly long;
or thousands of microseconds.
One geometry for which these effects can be cal-
culated analytically is the elliptical cylinder shown in
10.6. Under high frequency conditions the cur-
rent density or magnetic field intensity at the center
= 0, ±δ/2), is: = (Ξ Y
(10.9) H -=
7
0) and at the edge (Ξ ±β/2, = Y =
(10.10) H
277