As high. sufficiently becomes surface that at field tric
the surface the from away propagates streamer the
prop- it why is (which high remains tip its at field
and a conductor like acts streamer the but agates),
it, behind at points field electric the reduce to tends
par- robs any This reduction 6.25. Fig. in shown as
to con- need they field electric of the streamers allel
re- is field electric surface the tinue propagating. If
cease will streamers electric other the duced enough,
ex- is furthest that streamer external the and grow to
the provide and race the win speak, to so will, tended
external an of example flash. An lightning the for path
shown is leader approaching an intercepting streamer
6.26. Fig. in
-corona (b)
E
(a)
time
E
(C)
time
field by streamers. Suppression of electric 6.25 Fig.
field electric External (a)
streamers (b) External
field electric internal Suppressed (c)
streamers internal (d) Suppressed

point attachment lightning Simulated 6.26 Fig.
radome. nose a of tests
and of approaching intersection Note
streamers. induced
is that however, other situation, The Puncture:
the cover and surface of on the outer forms
This in Fig. 6.27. as shown into the air, out propagates
even- as well and surface on the outer charge deposits
sufficiently high field radial electric in a tually results
occurs, Once puncture is punctured. the cover that
through to pass is free and current is formed a spark
path is to main lightning the If skin material. the
may only puncture the structure, adjacent metallic an
main but if the the skin, in a small pinhole produce
wave skin, the shock the goes through current lightning
the damage severely to enough is frequently released
was of a radome by puncture produced skin. Damage
in Fig. 4.11. shown
a compos- occur with likely to is most Puncture
have microscopic materials those material because ite
can easily discharge an electric which holes through
given puncture a to voltage required The propagate.
is, in composite fiber or aramid of fiberglass thickness
to ionize that required than slightly greater fact, only
ability measure of the A similar thickness of air. a
is its puncture resist to material a non-conductive of
as such materials, Homogeneous strength. dielectric
high di- have very sheets, and polycarbonate acrylic
to puncture. are more resistant and electric strength
138