of the wire supplying power to the filament of the
will be set into oscillation by the suddenly developed
voltage. The result is that at remote points there prob-
ably will be an oscillation superimposed upon the basic
IR voltage.
•nG
MUOM4 wIo
is
V, Τ χ-use WMM
(α)
_ _ _ _in
(β)
(χ)
-the
Α'
(δ)
Fig. 8.5 Resistive voltages.
(α) Physical structure
(β) Current waveshape
(χ) V1
(δ) V2
cases of examples other two shows 8.6 Fig.
which resistive voltages might be encountered. The
first would be at the pylons for mounting external
stores, shown in Fig. 8.6(α). If lightning current were
to contact such external stores, it would have to flow
through the pylons to enter the aircraft. The pylons,
not generally designed as current carrying members,
and being points where the lightning current would
be concentrated, might have α high voltage developed
across them. Another example might be the structural
bolts attaching α large segment of the airframe, such
as the vertical stabilizer shown in Fig. 8.6(β).
(β)
α
-
Fig. 8 Ther empyles fof exernistares
ThJyoints (α) fotruxternal steres
(β) Joints in structural members

0
light Effects of grounding: The effects of joint resistance on
circuits are strongly influenced by the manner in which
circuits are grounded, as shown in Fig. 8.7. Current
flowing across the joint resistance, R, produces α driv-
ing voltage V = IR.
Since the circuit across which is measured V em-
1
ploys the structure as α ground-return path, the cir-
high. be Vi would thus this voltage; all of couples cuit
Α circuit employing α single-point ground does not in-
-WM clude this resistive drop; hence would be low. The V
2 of α single-point ground, however, does not erim-
inate the voltage, since in this latter case the voltage
at the source end of the circuit, 13, would be high.
Structural IR voltages are of particular concern
aircraft made from carbon fiber composite, CFC,
may the end to end resistance materials because then
flowing current 200 kA Α milliohms. as 60 much be as
through that resistance would produce 12 000 volts.
Equipment located in the front of the aircraft and
rferenced to α point in the rear would be subjected
to that high voltage, either on the circuits or between
equipment and the local structure.
,
TT
in I"
Fig, Effects 8.7 of grounding.
Fig 87Ef ctsrof rounding.
Single-point (β) ground, V2 low =
(χ) Single-point ground, V3 lo =
(χ) Single-point ground, V3 IR =
Limitations: These elementary descriptions of joint re-
sistance should not be relied upon to predict coupling
into circuits extending throughout the entire aircraft.
The more massive the joint and the lower the dc resis-
tance, the greater will be the dependence of resistance
on the waveform and frequency content of the lightning
current, and the greater will be the proportionate ef-
fects of changing magnetic fields. While these effects
will be discussed in more detail in other sections, one
common oversimplification, shown in Fig. 8.8, should
be pointed out here. If the total end-to-end resistance
of the aircraft were 2.5 mr and α lightning current of
200 kA were flowing through the aircraft, the end-to-
end voltage on any circuit could not be depended upon
to be less than 500 V, the product of the lightning cur-
rent and the de resistance.
228