NtS Α6
over 2Α in Zone doors access Large 7.21 Fig.
tanks. fuel fuselage
Integral nut ring: In example of (β) Fig. 7.22, the ing at the fastener/door interface. The use of an in-
riveted nut plate has been replaced with an integral tegral nut ring will further reduce current density in
nut ring. This configuration, where the captive nut is the door-to-ring fasteners. Arc products which are
installed inside α casting or the ring has α tapped hole, formed are contained by the use of the 0-ring seal as
allows higher currents to be conducted than the riveted before.
nut plates. Current enterirg the integral nut ring dif-
fuses to several fasteners which share the current car- Non-conductive doors: If the door, rather than α
ried to the doubler and the skin. Fuel tank sealant is door fastener is struck, current density through any
Lpplied around the fillets, nut-ring-to-doubler fasten- of the door fasteners will also be low since the cur-
ers and skin-to-doubler fasterrs (if present) to pre- rent from the door to the skin will be divided among
vent arc products from entering the vapor space from all of the door fasteners. Currents can be eliminated
these interfaces, in the door altogether if the door is constructed of α
non-conductive material such as chopped glass fiber
Elimination of fasteners: Two additional designs are reinforced composite. Α lightning attachment to such
shown in Figs. 7.22(χ) and (δ) where the doublers of α door will simply result in α surface flashover to the
examples (α) and (β) have'been removed. This elimi- adjacent skin or fastener.
nates the need for the skin-to-doubler fasteners of the
previous examples thus removing them as potential ig- Alternative gasket approaches: Figs. 7.23(α) and (β)
nition sources, shows two access door gasket designs. Example (α)
shows an 0-ring which fits into the slot shown in the
Preferred fastener locations: In Fig. 7.22(χ), the ac- doubler and prevents arc products from entering the
cess door fastener head is located in the door so that α vapor space within the fuel tank. In Fig. 7.23(β),
strike to the door causes current to leave through the α flat gasket has been slotted as shown so that arc
door fastener. This creates potential arc and spark products occurring at the door-to-doubler (or door-
sources at the fastener interfaces with the resultant to-skin) fasteners can be vented to the external surface
arc products contained by the use of the 0-ring seal away from the internal fuel/vapor space.
and the polysulfide sealed riveted nut plate.
In Fig. 7.22(δ), the fastener head is located in Other modifications: Other modifications in access
the skin rather than the access door. Α strike to the door seal design have proven equally effective in pre-
fastoner will let α majority of the current go directly venting arcing. In some cases anodized clamp rings or
into the skin thus decreasing the current density in insulating gaskets have been acceptable when sufficient
the door-to-skin fastener. The decrease in fastener metal-to--metal conductivity existed via the boits or
current density in turn minimizes the intensity of arc- fasteners alone. The door for which the modification
193