Non-conducting composites: Some of these mate- Conductive composites: Plastics reinforced with car-
rials have begun to replace aluminum in secondary bon or boron fibers do have some electrical conductiv-
structures, such as nose, wing and empennage tips, tail ity, and, because of this, their behavior with respect to
cones, wing-body fairings and control surfaces, and on lightning is considerably different from that of noncon-
several occasions the entire aircraft has been fabricated ductive materials. Carbon fiber composites (CFC) are
of fiber reinforced composites. employed extensively in secondary structural applica-
Often the nonmetallic material is used to cover a tions and occasionally in primary structures as well.
metallic object, such as a radar antenna. If this coy- Boron reinforced composites were the subject of
ering material is nonconducting, such as is the case extensive development efforts in the 1970's, but failed
with fiberglass, electric fields may penetrate it and to find applications in airframe design and, with a few
initiate streamers from metallic objects inside. These exceptions, have disappeared from use.
streamers may puncture the nonmetallic material as To date, most CFC materials in lightning strike
they propagate outward to meet an oncoming light- zones have been provided with suitable protection
ning leader. This puncture begins as a pinhole, but, from lightning strike effects. Some in-flight lightning
as soon as stroke currents and accompanying blast and strikes have occurred, with superficial damage that has
shock waves follow, much more damage occurs, not become a flight safety hazard.
An example of a puncture of a fiberglass honey- Simulated lightning tests which have been per-
comb radome is shown on Fig. 4.11 (4.111. In this case formed on CFC materials in the laboratory, however,
a streamer evidently propagated from the radar dish have shown that unprotected composites may be dam-
or some other conductive object inside the rviome, aged. The lightning damage is due to resistive heating
puncturing the fiberglass-honeycomb wall and rubber of the carbon fibers, which vaporizes and ignites the
erosion protection boot on its way to meet an oncom- binding resin and leaves the fibers in disarray, as shown
ing lightning leader. Most of the visible damage was in Fig. 4.12. Further damage results from the shock
done by the ensuing stroke current. wave that accompanies the return stroke currents, and
Fig. 4.11 Puncture of a fiberglass-honeycomb radome.
76