consideration impedance is an important erator source are prominant in composite Waveforms 4 and 5
im- low source imply very voltage rises structural since low imped- on 5 dominant with Waveform structures
ance circuits. To evaluate their effects, generator im- pedance. Ideally, test generators should have imped-
pedances of 0.1 to 5 ohms are appropriate. ances of a fraction of an ohm. If higher impedance
Some combination of all these waveforms will gen- generators are used, care must be taken to ensure that
erally be present at some amplitude. Since these tests the requisite curr'ent is obtained.
are intended to evaluate damage, only the most severe
Precautions 18.11 Regarding Support patterns of amplitude and energy content need to be
Equipment applied to equipment.
Transformer 18.10.2 Injection Tests Most tests require the EUT to be supported and
monitored by equipment that is not normally installed
Injection into unshielded circuits: Injection into un- in the aircraft. Experience has shown that many of the
shielded circuits is most commonly done to evaluate problems involved in performance of lightning indirect
whether upset will occur with certain arbitrarily cho- tests in; olve the support equipment. It has also shown
sen voltages and currents. Unless there are specific rea- that some supposed "failures" of the equipment under
sons to the contrary the levels of Tables 16.2 and 16.3 test have really been caused by the support equipment.
should be used, just as with pin injection tests. Imped- Problems can occur either because of malfunction of
ance of the source, transient generator and coupling the 6upport and monitoring equipment or because the
transformer is a valid consideration since the coupled leads to that equipment p.ovide extraneous coupling
transients may manifest themselves either as voltage paths into the EUT.
or current, according to the impedance of the circuit Care should be taken that this equipment and
under test. Effective impedances of 5 - 25 ohms are the connecting leads are well protected against light-
appropriate. ning indirect effects since the test, of necessity, sub-
jects the support equipment to as severe a test as it
Injection into shielded circuits: Injection into over- does the equipment being monitored. As a minimum,
all shields of cables (shields grounded at both ends) all leads connecting the monitoring equipment to the
is most commonly done to evaluate the effectiveness EUT should be shielded. Often it is appropriate to use
of the shields and to see if the EUT will be affected copper tubing for the shields. If monitoring equipment
by the residual signals coupled through the shield to is connected to the internal circuits of the EUT, opti-
the conductors in the shield. Current levels should ap- cal isolation devices are appropriate. Also, the mon-
proximate those expected to be produced by lightning, itoring equipment should be as far from the EUT as
but estimating the required currents is a task totally possible in order to minimize direct radiation from the
separate from the conduct of the verification tests, test circuit and EUT into the monitoring equipment.
Source impedance is of little concern as long as
18.12 Safety the overall shield is continuous, grounded at each end
and able to carry current. Under such conditions the
important consideration is the amount and waveshape Indirect effects testing, particularly at high power
of the induced current. Source impedance is only of levels, involves the use of test equipment operating at
concern for tests on shielded cables when an attempt voltage levels high enough to be lethal. Safety precau-
is made to observe the effects if the continuity of the tions are essential and must be addressed in test plans
overall shield is broken or degraded. Otherwise there or laboratory procedures. Some minimal precautions
is little reason to be concerned with what the open are as follows.
circuit voltage might be on an unshielded circuit if the
those operating area to the test access to 1. Limit to be shielded. going in fact, always is, circuit
the test equipment. Tests Injection Ground 18.10.3
2. Provide all capacitor banks with a grounding stick
Ground injection tests are generally made to eval- or switch. Never touch a capacitor until it has
uate the effects of airframe IR voltage on circuits with been verified that the grounding stick or switch is
references to different points on the airframe. Most in place.
O commonly, such circuits will be fitted with protective
devices or contained in cables with overall shields. 3. Consider placing all high voltage equipment into a
Tests should be done at current levels determined test cage fitted with interlocks that prevent ener-
by the techniques discussed in Chapters 10 - 14. Gen- gizing high voltage power supplies until all access
489