Chapter 11
THE INTERNAL FIELDS COUPLED
Introduction 11.1
fields and electromagnetic Lightning currents
the outside of the aircraft couple to the inside through
apertures and by the processes of diffusion and
distribution. Speaking in broad generalities, coupling
through apertures, which is the subject of Chapter
is α high frequency mechanism, while coupling through
subjects of this chap- diffusion and redistribution, the
ter, are low frequency mechanisms. Diffusion refers
the process by which electric and magnetic fields
etrate through conducting materials. Redistribution
by which the overall pattern refers to the process
initial state where flow changes from an current
fields to α final by magnetic is controlled distribution
The by resistance. iZ is controlled state where
diffusion and redistribution on metal tors that affect
affect the electro- the same factors that structures are
it might though of such structures, shielding magnetic
redistribution are and diffusion to say that be better
shielding the mechanisms by which electromagnetic
obtained.
In the context of this document, diffusion primar-
build relates to the process by which electric fields ily
up on the inner surfaces of an aircraft in response
the external electric and magnetic fields produced
electric fields most elementary terms In the lightning.
of as those pro, be thought can by diffusion produced
through the current passage of lightning duced by
thorough discussion but α more of the aircraft, sistance
and transfer imped- can be made in terms of surface
9. in Chapter were introduced that ances, subjects
to metal aircraft, apply concepts these Although
fiber com- significant for carbon especially they are
reality aircraft which are in posite (CFC) aircraft;
is because materials. This of metal and CFC mixture
orders three about conductivities have materials CFC
If lightning aluminum. that of than less of magnitude
(or high the early time aircraft, such an strikes
will distribute current of the lightning parts quency)
metal would on an all they manner as the same in
craft. The late time (or low frequency) components,
the resistance to according will distribute however,
will be much more parts and there the structural
there than α CFC aircraft of structure the inner on rent
all metal aircraft. α comparable would be on

BY REDISTRIBUTION DIFFUSION AND
α CFC the subject is that Another way of viewing on
aircraft will be much less effective at providing elec-
re- tromagnetic shielding than an all metal aircraft. Mag-
netic field shielding that might be inherent to, and
12, taken for granted, on an all metal aircraft may have
to be intentionally provided on α aircraft, usu- CFC
impact on program costs and ally with an unfavorable
to weight.
pen- In the sections that follow, internal and external
electromagnetic fields are first discussed so as to dif-
concepts used for light- ferentiate somewhat between of
electromagnetic shield- ning interactions and classical the
then dis- voltage are Concepts of circuit ing problems.
diffusion where only α circular cylinder cussed, first for fac-
are encountered and then in terms of elliptical effects
be consid- effects must cylinders where redistribution
the discussion of also include α portion will ered. This
produces magnetic external current which processes by
such as equipment bays. Redistri- is fields inside cavities,
complex for the more illustrated are then bution effects
where recourse must be made to numerical structures
analysis techniques.
11.2 Internal vs. External Fields to
by
an which defines shows α metal sheet Fig. 11.1
can the sheet discussions For these volume. interior
or infinite extent as fiat and of either re- be considered
large com- of curvature having α radius and closed
On the outside to the thickness of the sheet. pared
this field is impressed, sheet an electromagnetic of the
the sheet. flowing in α current with associated being
field will external electromagnetic of the Some portion
couple to the interior through the sheet and α penetrate
important sheet. Five regions defined by the volume
ex- (α) the be defined: problem can the interaction to
the 0), (χ) (ζ = surface the external (β) region, ternal
(ζ surface the internal sheet, (δ) interior of the fre- = δ)
are (α) and (β) Regions volume. the internal and (ε)
the between the interaction in ones involved the main air-
sheet and any impinging electromagnetic field. Re-
that the in the way involved (δ) are (χ) and gions (β), of
are in- ε sheet while regions δ and fields penetrate the cur-
interior in the up build fields that the way in volved
volume.
307