waves originating at the electrode, will not be
toward the test surface and, since the surface
insulated electrode nearest the test surface Is
cal, shock waves originating at the surface'under
will be dispersed and not reflected by the electrode.
Further discussion of testing considerations
found in §6.8.
electrode
shock waves
obtest /joint
α (
bjctAny
(α)
Ias
7 7 7 /-mon
insulating arc
re sph
(β)
7' 7 7 7 7 7- 7 7 7 7-7
Fig. 6.16 Shock waves encountered during laboratory
testing with high currentse
(α) Pressure waves confined by
electrode metal α
(β) Insulating sphere to force arc
from underneath electrode
6.2.4 Arcing across Bonds, Hinges, and Joints
Riveted Joints: There is some conflict between
construction practices best for lightning protection
and those best for control of corrosion. Ideally,
lightning protection, joints in metal structures should
provide α metal-to-metal contact between the surfaces
being joined. This would require that the joints
made before paints or sealers are applied. Control
of corrosion, however, generally requires that metal
surfaces be painted or sealed before the rivets are
stalled. Usually it also requires that the rivets
rivet holes be painted or sealed. Such films might
vide an insulating surface, through which current must
arc as it passes through the joint. In general, of course,
Sarcing is undesirable.

directed In moet applications, the insulating films, associ-
of the ated with corrosion protective coatings have' not re-
spheri- suited in major lightning arcing problems. Many
test times, the insulating films are broken during installa-
tion, providing α conductive path, though newer ýepoxy
is paints and sealants are much more rei.itant to me-
chanical puncture than the older paints. Also, the
large number offasteners required to noet mechan-
ical requirements tends to ensure that many parallel
conducting paths are established, thus greatly limiting
the arc damage at any one fastener.
These observations, though, must be qualified
since there, are some situations where lightning cur-
rent through α riveted joint might present some hax-
ards. One would be if the space behind the riveted
contained flammable fluids or flammable vapors.
possibility of sparking should then be considered
presenting α hazard. Fuel tanks are the most com-
example of such α situation and because of the
potential hazards are given special attention in Chap-
ter 7.
Example: The riveted joint of Fig. 6.17 carried 200 kA
without arcing or any other evidence of distress, but it
should be noted that the current path was end-to-end,
α pattern that did not give rise to any unbalanced mag-
netic forces. Α different current path might give rise to
magnetic forces that could, possibly, lead to mechan-
ical failure of the rivets, α phenomenom having little
to do with arcing. If the current pattern were known
to be such that unbalanced magnetic forces might de-
velop, it would be prudent to conduct high current
the joint. on tests
Design guidelines: Most airframe structural interfaces
are located in Zone and so will conduct some 3 por-
tions of lightning current when the aircraft encoun-
ters α lightning strike. Nearly all riveted or fastened
interfaces of primary structure can tolerate lightning
current without structural damage or other adverse ef-
fects. This holds true if the density of stroke currents
is held to 5 kA or less per fastener or tivet. Since large
the numbers of rivets are utilized in most primary struc-
tures, current densities are nearly always below this
for guideline and no special features need to be added to
the design for lightning protection purposes, except for
the arc or spark suppression techniques to be described
be in Chapter 7 for structures that enclose fuel.
Exceptions: Some possible exceptions to this situation
in- exist:
and
pro- 1. Secondary structures.
2. The primary structure of very small aircraft; those
of gross weight less than about 1800 kg (4000 lbs),
131