kA 200 'tests all with sinusoids, damped Β.ith. typic α Three of critical required documents ý&nipo.
ouch tAnk~akins, as As illus- on Fig. 5.1. are illustrated peak amplitudes, fillaeicaps, access panels, fuel nents,
in difference there is α significant trated in this figure, of entry" 6ν and other "points antenna installations,
each with associated and energy duration time of overall the effects givenft0 was No attention aircraft. the
of the amount Clearly, test currents. the illustrated or syp- of structures interior currents conducted through
by filicted on α test specimen ε that would be on electrical damn idfidiet effects of Ulhtning teins, or to
by that inflicted less than is much Al waveform not current effects were latter systems. These avionics and
This situ- that of Α3. greater than Α2 and waveform during this period. wellunderstood
light- in the early shortcoming was α significant ation
apparent Aircraft Early With standards, Experience ning especially became and test 5.5.2
Standards structures, advanced composite of emergence the with
dis- of energy to the effects more sensitive are which
structurep. aluminum than were conventional de- sipation protection aircraft lightning of the early Most
cur- of the Integral the Action now define Standards the against on protection focused were sign activities
Action Inte- peak amplitude. well as the wave as as rent such effect of lightning, damage or physical direct
in §5.5.3. discussed further gral it. melting structures, metallic deformation of lightweight
of dielectric puc ture tank skins, through fuel of holes
preven- canopies, and radomes and such as' surfaces,
in fuel interfaces at structural arcing tion of electrical
out by ex- was carried testing tanks. The required
as GE such laboratories, utility manufacturer isting
or- small specialty and by several Westinghouse, and
Research anid Transients such as Lightning ganizations
speci- by the required stroke currents The Institute.
banks capacitor by charged were produced fications
into the impedances through waveshaping discharged
test specimens.
it was not However, current waves: Unidirectional
spec- waveshapes unidirectional to obtain the possible
existing with the MIL-Β-5087 and ified in AC 20-53
largest at the those available capacitor banks, even
The laboratories. manufacturerp' equipment electrical
V cur- unidirectional is that the specified reason for this
including an test circuit an overdamped requires rent
resistance usu- The of resistance. amount excessive
of 100 kA current to amplitudes limits the peak ally
stored in originally most of the energy with and below,
circuit the test in dissipated being bank capacitor the
perfor- The specimen. the test of instead resistance,
of the tradeoffs and some equipment, of test mance
are discussed and waveshape, size generator between
§6,8. further in
specified over- Since the waves: current Oscillatory _ __.
lab- be readily produced, not waveform could damped
sinusoid wave- α damped provided oratories instead
test sinusoid damped typical Three 5.1 Fig. allowed and resistance less circuit This required form.
standard. to SAE prior currents to be amplitude current kA peak 200 the specified
dura- and time frequency the Unfortunately, achieved.
early in the shortcoming An additional Strike zones: lab- varied among currents damped sinusoid tion of the
absence, was the complete standards airplane lightning built had been equipment since the testing oratories,
of in definition, or poor in MIL-Β-5087, equip- of aircraft the testing other than AC for purposes 20-53,
means by zones are the Strike strike zones. α lightning definition of no standardized There being ment.
to spe- is applied lightning environment which the of fre- wide variety current, α test damped sinusoid
original The and structures. surfaces cific airplane were utilized. durations and time quencies
95