stantial computer time and expense. Ongoing trends
in computer speed and cost can be counted upon to
reduce these problems.
Examples: Some examples of the use of this approach
are given in §10.8 and §10.0, in which predictions of
the response of the F-106B and C-580 thunderstorm
research aircraft are compared to measured data. The
predictions cover both linear and nonlinear (triggered
lightning) modeling.
Integral Equation Approaches 10.7.2
There are at least three integral equation ap- Fig. 10.23 Simple wire grid model of a cruise missile.
proaches which have been used for lightning interac-
tion analysis. They all use the method of moments
(MOM) and calculations are made only in the fre- Triangular patch: The triangular patch method [10.44
quency domain. Determining the response to a light- -10.461 models the aircraft by an assemblage of trian-
ning transient would require calculations to be made gular surfaces. The current at the center of each patch
at many frequencies, after which the time domain re- is then calculated using either the electric field integral
sponse could be extracted by inverse Fourier transform equation (EFIE) or the magnetic field integral eq'a-
techniques. Since making calculations at the large tion (MFIE), depending on the shape of the object
number of frequencies required for a meaningful trans- being modeled. The MFIE can only be used for closed
formation would be quite expensive, the methods have surfaces. A gridding of the F-18, showing the distri-
not been used much for lightning interaction problems. bution of current at 1 MHz, is shown on Fig. 10.24.
Also, because all the approaches assume linearity in The method allows lossy materials to be modeled.
their formulation, they cannot be used to solve non- A virtue of a triangular grid is that it allows for
linear problems. fairly faithful modeling of complex shapes, and for this
This is an inherent feature of all frequency domain reason triangular grids are the ones most commonly
analysis techniques, whatever the application, and is used for field analysis in other disciplines. A draw-
not peculiar to calculations of lightning interactionc. A back, though, is that the model can only be used for
consequence of this is that none of them can be used a steady state solution. The literature [10.44 - 10.46]
to analyze initiation of triggered lightning. Lightning shows several examples of the response at a fixed fre-
must be considered either as a discrete current source quency, but no lightning transient responses have been
injected onto the aircraft at some point (and removed published, perhaps because the cost of calculating the
at one or more points elsewhere) or it must be assumed response at sufficient frequencies for a Fourier trans-
to be the source of an electromagnetic field that im- form into the time domain has been excessive.
pinges on the aircraft.
WIRANT: The program WIRANT [10.41 - 10.43] is
based on the electric field integral equation (EFIE) of
§10.6. The aircraft is replaced by an approximately
equivalent structure made of thin wire segments, as
illustrated on Fig. 10.23. WIRANT is then used to
determine the current on the individual wire segments.
Those currents provide an approximation of the actual
surface currents on the vehicle. Most commonly the
procedure has been used to determine the response of a
structure to an impinging electromagnetic field, but for
lightning interactions the procedure can also be used to
determine how current divides among the various wires
point. particular a at injected is current lightning if
Lossy materials can be included in the model. Results
. ITMY
with predicted by WIRANT have compared favorably
test data 110.44]. Fig. 10.24 Triangular patch model of an F-18.
289