sqtu•re pulse of magnitude
I ε -o θ
"δ the total energy piduced is
ft
Ω Pdt (17.5) =IVt =
that the is sufficient level that the power Assume
pulse. Both experimental fails at the end of the device
power re- the that indicate analyses theoretical and
the wi4lth: on pulse depends failure to cause quired
narrower the pulse, the greater the power required
"lo typi- range of times, Over α broad cause failure.
ps cally between 0.1 and ps, the power 100 required
the square to proportional is inversely failure to ,'.use
the power durations pulse very short time. For root of
to proportional inversely cause failure is to required
Μ the power pulse durations for very long time, and
These relations is α constant. failure, to cause quired
equations: the following by be expressed may
(17.6) To < = τ C Pt
2 (17.7) < <tf 1004σ To K ptl/ =
(17.8) > 100 us K To α τ, = petl2
φ Coastant Π 100 π (17.8) />
where To generally lies between 10 and 1 Fig. ns os.
17.26 shows an example for α 10 Ω diode. The most
important region is the center regionm where
(17.9) 2 Π Kt-11 =
Sditions.
V V9
)
-
V.
(β)
Fig. 17.25 Voltage and current through α diode
junction [17.91.
Forward bias case (α)
(β) Reverse bias V came, > VBD
454

Effects bias: of Junctions are less susceptible to
burnout when operated with forward bias: first, be-
lower is current α given by produced power the canse
when flowing through the low forward bias voltage
than when developed across the higher reverse bias
breakdown voltage, and, second, because the VBD,
current is more uniformly distributed across the junc-
it requires Accordingly, direction. the forward tion in
direction to cause failure. the forward mtore power in
tran- 2N2222 The 17.27. in Fig. is shown An example
speed switch. high- silicon NPN Ω is α 0.5 sister
Damage Constants 17.5.5
and 17.26 Figs. thosi of as such curves, From
can (or C), K constant., value of α damage 17.27, the
devices. α range of for tabulated determined and be
curve cau then be threshold damage The appropriate
charac- single damage from α reproduced as desired
is con- K. It constant damage the number, terization
5 venient to express K in since the value of kWMpsa* ,
to numerically equal becomes then units these in K
square by α dissipated failure, for necessary power the
of 1 duration. pulse ps
If this point is located on α log-log graph, as
shown in Fig. 17.26. then α curve of slope, -0.5. drawn
through this point reconstructs the curve fit to the
data for α particular device, and the power for fail-
ure at other pulse durations can be read directly from
such α graph. Ideally, the K factor should be known
for both the forward bias and the reverse bias con-
Generally. only the K factor for the reverse
bias condition is known. This limitation gives coner-
vative answers, since K for the reverse bias condition
is almost always lower than is K for the forward bias
condition.
The magnitude of the damage constant depends
upon the type of junction under consideration: broadly
speaking, it is larger for large junctions and smaller
for smala junctions. Figs. 17.28 and 17.29 show the
range of the damage constant for typical diodes and
transistors.
Detemination 5. Experimeua of
-.
Experimentally the K factor is determined in- by
jecting power pulses into the semniconductar junction,
starting at low levels and increasing the levels until ei-
of the junction degradation significant or failure ther
occurs. Devices would normally be pulsed in both the
forward and reverse directiom.
The K factors and breakdown voltages for some
representative semiconductors are given in Ta"le 17.4
and 17.5. The tables are intended only to show the