360 degree connector core
rs conduct (best) (β)
external pigtail Γ
I remote ground
(bad) (δ)
internal pigtail
(Poor) (ε)
connection to signal ν
tg (wor' ground
.all ground ructure o•
Fig. 16.8 Types of grounding φ,'ρ shields.
Grounding to an Inside surface: Grounding an over-
shield to the inside surface of an equipment case
through α pigtail and'α set of contacts in the connes-
tor is less effective than the use of an external pigtail,
partly because the length of the pigtail is inherently
longer and partly because it brings currents directly
to the inside of the case. Such grounding of an over-
all shield should be ,voided wherever possible and, in
particular, must be avoided whenever the overall shield
signif- α intercept it will where region α through runs
icant amount of energy from the external electromag-
netic field.
Grounding to signal bus: In no case should an overall,
shkied be connected to α signal ground bus.
Daisy chain grounding: Daisy chain grounding of
cable shields, illustrated in Fig. 16.9, should never
be used. It constrains current intercepted by all the
shields to flow through α common path and so pro-
vides the greatest potential to defeat the purpose of
the shields.
Coordination 16.6 Between Transients and
Specifications
Section 5.7 discussed criteria in terms pass/fail
Σ of Levels and Equipment Transient Transient Control
while [16.11 suggests Design Levels, TCLE and ETDLs
possible levels. The following material discusses the
concepts in more detail.
427

remote structure ground
Fig. 16.9 Daisy chain grounding.
Alternstitue regarding transients: Three possible ap-
proaches to dealing with lightning induced transients
are:
1. Dasigners of aircraft equipment ("black boxes")
might be considered to have the responsibility to
provide equipment that will withstand the tran-
sients that might be developed in the aircraft,
whatever those tiansients might be.
to be considered might wiring aircraft of Designers 2.
have the responsibility for ensuring that transients
never exceed the capabilities of terminal equip-
ment, whatever that might be.
3. Design efforts might be coordinated so that de-
signers of equipment would guarautee that their
equipment could withstand transients of one level
and designers of wiring systems would guarantee
that the transients would never exceed another,
and lower, level.
'ransient coordination represents the third of the
approaches.
Evolution of Transient 16.6.1 Standards for
Aircraft
Transient control level standards now coming into
use for aircraft have evolved from se-eral sources; air-
craft, military and industrial.