Fig.10.0 tna pscillathfor amodels .
nose-to-tail oscillation.
pulses Significance of lightning: Current triggered
of a triggered development initial the with associated
rise times. If fast to have are believed flash lightning
if the impedances shown on Fig. 10.39 are so, and
of a developing light- representive of the impedance
shown might be rep- ning leader, then the oscillations
what would be produced by a triggered resentative of
lightning flash.
with the In view of the uncertainties associated
to be appropriate arc, it may of a lightning impedance
of an calculations of the interaction view with caution
a lightning channel. aircraft with
the where place studies: LTA Resonances with One
traveling waves current with associated oscillations
is dur- important aircraft are on an and forth back
an of tests (LTA) Analysis Transient ing Lightning
by measurement, the voltages aircraft to determine,
the on aircraft wiring. Interactions between induced
govern the waveshape of aircraft and the test circuit
the current that can be injected into the aircraft. The
also such that the current on differ- oscillations are
the aircraft may be different and also ent portions of
from the current measured as being injected different
is discussed further in into the aircraft. The matter
Chapter 13.
Aircraft Composite 10.11
The emphasis in the preceeding sections has been
which, as far as the external electro- on metal aircraft
can usually be accu- magnetic field distribution goes,
conducting. The distribu- rately modeled as perfectly
from an initial state gov- tion of current does change
fields effect to a final distribution erned by magnetic
over which governed by resistance, but the time scale
takes place is long compared to the the redistribution S
The factors governing duration of lightning currents.
in more detail in Chap- redistribution are discussed

significant can have however, aircraft, 11. Some tcr
material, (CFC) composite fiber of carbon amounts
conductive less orders of magnitude are three which
a mix- of consist which structures For aluminum. than
takes the redistribution composites, metal and of ture
and aircraft a metal on than rapidly more place much
the in- and distribution external current the as a result
issues. distinct as be considered cannot coupling ternal
on aircraft of such interior to the penetrates Current
duration as the same the about is which scale a time
to coupled voltages result, As a currents. of lightning
magni- higher have aircraft CFC of circuits internal
than do component a resistive more of and have tudes
voltages on metal aircraft.
The external current flow patterns and redistri-
for both in the simple 2D bution can be accounted
more complex discussed in §10.7.1 and in the
3 oes
models. 3D
Cylindrical 2D in Implementation 10.11.1
Models
of redistribution in the wire fila- Implementation
models discussed in §10.5.3 is rather straightfor- ment
low frequencies, defined as oc- ward. At sufficiently
the when the skin depth is on the order of curring
filamentary model such as shown in skin thickness, a
for the resistivity by Fig. 10.12 and 10.13 can account
with the induc- resistors in series appropriate inserting
appropriate to is that The value of the resist-r tots.
each filament. skin associated with volume of the the
Fig. of that like look would model The resultant
of variety a by solved be can circuits Such 10.13.
SPICE, SCEPTRE, examples being codes; network
EMTP. and ECAP
m Models Implementation 3D 10.11.2
redistribution can be included in both the Current
finite difference time domain techniques and in the in-
equation approaches. tegral
im- The basic concepts of interest are the suriace
Z,(w). ZR(w) and the transfer impedance pedance,
in Chapter 11. These are discussed in detail
finite difference method re- The 3D time domain
11, it is quires a temporal representation. In Chapter
of convo- Z.(w) an infinite series shown that becomes
in the time domain. These can be implemented lutions
3DFD code in a straightforward manner 110.261. in the
required is not large and also de- The number of terms
with time. creases
possible to include in integral It is also Z.(w)
one codes. For example, in a wire grid code, equation
wires. can insert discrete equivalent impedances in the
a way that These impedances are determined in such
effect of the thin wire is to represent the the aggregate
qnrface impedance. actual
303