Multiple ground points: There is some virtue in stag-
gering the spacing between multiple ground points on
α cable shield, since it is theoretically possible that
uniform grounding can lead to troublesome standing
waves if the shield is illuminated α sustained fre by
quency interference source. Also, the cable may be
exposed to α significant amount of magnetic field over
only α small portion of its total length. If the shield is
multiple-grounded, the circulating currents will tend
to flow along only one portion of the cable whereas,
if it is grounded at only the two ends, current is con-
strained to flow the entire length of the cable.
Possible conflicts: The requirement that α shield in-
tended for protection against lightning effects must be
grounded at both ends raises the perennial controversy
about single-point versus multiple-point grounding of
circuits. For many reasons, usually legitimate, low
level circuits need to be shielded against low fre-
quency interference. Most commonly, and usually le-
gitimately, the shields intended for such low frequency
interference protection are grounded at only one end.
Α fundamental concept often overlooked, how-
ever, is that the physical length of such shields must
be short compared to the wavelength of the interfering
signals. Lightning produced interference, however, is
usually broad band and includes significant amounts
of energy at quite high frequencies, frequencies higher
than those the typical low frequency shields are in-
tended to handle.
conflict: Resolution of The conflict between the prac-
tices best for shielding against high frequency, light-
ning produced interference and those for shielding
against everyday, low frequency interference is usually
too great for both sets of requirements to be met by
use of only one shield system.
Most commonly both sets of requirements can
be met only by having one shield system to protect
against low frequency interference and α second shield
system to protect against lightning-generated interfer-
ence. The lightning shield can usually consist of an
overall braided shield on α group of conductors with
this overall shield being grounded to the aircraft struc-
ture at least at the ends. Within the overall shield may
be placed whatever types of circuit are needed.
Frequently these circuits will have α shielded con-
ductor of their own. In α coordinated shielded system
the designers of individual circuits should have the
option of grounding such inner shields as their own
requirements dictate, but they should not have the
power ot dictating tihe treatment ot the overall stuela.
Such an overall shield (OAS) is shown in Fig. 16.7.
426

overall shield (OAS)
.
inner
shield χ IS)
I Fig. 16.7 Overall shield.
1/
Ground Connections for Shields 16.5.4
The method of grounding an overall shield can
have α great impact on its effectiveness in protecting
against lightning generated interference. Figs. 16.8(α)
through 16.8(ε) show several methods of grounding
such α shield when that shield is placed over α group
of conductors being brought into an equipment case.
degree 360 grounding: For best performance the OAS
should be terminated on the back shell of α connector
specifically designed for such termination. The shield
should make α 360 degree circumferential connection
to the back shell of the connector and the connector
shell itself should be designed to have low dc resistance
to its mating panel connector.
Most commonly, such low resistance mating re-
quires the use of grounding fingers within the connec-
tor shell. Connectors without such grounding fingers
frequently have high resistance between the mating
shells, since the shells are frequently coated with an in-
sulating coating to reduce problems of corrosion. The
shell of the panel connector should also provide α 360
degree peripheral connection to the metal equipment
case. Providing such α connection frequently requires
that paint or other coatings on the case of the equip-
ment be removed and the bare metal exposed.
Pigtail grounding: In the absence of α 360 degree con-
nector, an external pigtail is often used for grounding
the OAS, as shown in Fig. 16.8(β). Such pigtails are
definitely inferior to the 360 degree connector because
they force an interfering current on the shield to be
concentrated through the pigtail, and hence provide α
much greater degree of magnetic coupling to the core
conductors than does the distributed flow on α prop-
erly designed connector back shell. If such α pigtail is
used, it should be as short as possible and should ter-
minate on the outside of the equipment case. Α pigtail
of only α very few inches in length may introduce more
leakage from the shield onto the inner conductors than
does α several foot section of the shield itself.
α Grounding to remote point: Cable shields should
be gro'znded to the case upon which the connector is
mounted and should not be grounded to α remote "low
noise' ground point, as shown in Fig. 16.8(χ)