actual installation. The the in be would as they
mode. its normal in should be powered
as follows: be would procedure The test
EUT the from generator surge the Disconnect 1.
open specified the until level power the adjust
as level the Record is obtained. voltage cuit
is waveshape voltage the that observe Also,
rect.
and generator surge of the output the Ground 2.
amplitude correct of the is current the that serve
waveshape current the that Note waveshape. and
voltage of the as that same the to be need does not
be "correct." to
zero. to generator the of setting power the Reduce 3.
ground to the generator surge the Connect 4.
until output the increase and the EUT of minal
reached. is or flows current specified the either S,,
pulses. number of requisite Apply the 5.
operation. for proper EUT the Check 6.
pen EUT
locally
wire(s) teshould
Vpulse
generator oscilloscope
Fig. 18.41 Test setup for ground injection,
Injection Ground for Procedures 18.8.1
5 Waveform
attention special requires 5 of Waveform Injection
current The and duration. amplitude of its because
suppression surge on filters, duty severe impose may
to heating Fusing, of cables. shields and devices
spark- and insulation cable to damaging temperature
possible. interference are all with resultant, ing
com- a system to be applied is to the test Where
of equipment, pieces interconnected posed of several

various into resistors to insert necessary be may it EUT
in the flow to current injected the force to paths ground
resistors required the of Determination paths. desired
described is but material, this of scope the is beyond
[18.9]. in
and
Tests Field Magnetic and Electric 18.9 cir-
9,,.
particularly tests, field magnetic and Electric cor-
impedance constant of aid the with those performed
to performed been mostly have simulators, line strip
used for spe- been have but effects, NEMP for check ob-
effects. indirect of lightning studies in purposes cialized
the with evaluating to do had have those Principally
enclosures. equipment of properties shielding
160C developing DO the and SAE AE4L, FAA,
using tests for call specifically not do specifications
war- circumstances when them allow but lines, strip
some provides [18.8] book" "'Yellow SAE The rant.
but tests, line strip making of of methods discussion ter-
book" "Orange SAE the nor document that neither
field to as recommendations any specific make [18.10]
levels.
is test techniques strip line of discussion Further
material. this of scope the beyond
6
Tests for Levels 18.10
wave- the and tests, conduct to which at Levels
type of the on somewhat depend be used, to forms
and voltages which in tests spepking, Broadly test.
test under of a device pins to the are coupled currents
be done at one of the levels given in Tables 16.2
into the are injected currents in which Tests 16.3. and
expected levels the at be done should of cables shields
lightning. by produced to be
a in specified be should and waveshapes Levels
guidance Some test. the prior to prepared plan test
in the is given levels be appropriate might what as to
following sections.
Tests Injection Pin 18.10.1
of
injection pin making for reason common most The
certain survive EUT will the that establish is to tests
there Unless currents. and voltages chosen arbitrarily
it is recommended the contrary, to reasons specific are
16.2 and Tables of those from be chosen levels that
are probably 16.12 of Fig. and 3 2 16.3. Waveforms a
be coupled will of what representative most ones the
metallic to attachment of lightning result as a to pins
generator transient the that imply airframes. These
 25 ohms. of 5 - an impedance have should
488