is about 5 kV/cm or greater. If the gradient is greater
than 5 kV/cm the streamers will propagate faster,
this requires injecting charge into the gap at α higher
rate and hence more current is drawn from the source
initiating the breakdown. Frequently the available cur-
rent is limited and the streamers will propagate at
velocity such as to limit the gradient to about 5 kV/cm
(500 kV/μ). This critical gradient is basically what
determines the minimum breakdown voltage of large
air gaps, since the leader velocity determines how long
the voltage must be maintained to cause breakdown.
An average leader velocity of 10 cm/ps implies that
50 cm gap would require voltage to be maintained for
jus before the flashover would be complete. If α higher
voltage is applied to the gap the leader velocity may
increase and the breakdown will grow to completion
α shorter time.
1.5.5 Effects of Gas Density and Humidity
The flashover voltage of air gaps depends on
mospheric conditions. Usually it is raised by an in-
crease in air density or by an increase in humidity.
An increase in air density (pressure and temperature
both affect air density) decreases the mean free path
electrons and decreases the likelihood that they will
accelerated to α voltage sufficient to cause secondary
emission. Water molecules tend to absorb electrons
and thus decrease their chances to participate in the
formation of electron avalances.
For uniform field conditions and gap distances
of α few centimeters the variation of breakdown volt-
age with pressure is governed by Pachen'σ Law, which
states that the breakdown voltage depends on the
product of gas pressure and gap length, as illustrated
on Fig. 1.23. For most conditions breakdown strength
decreases as pressure decreases, though there is α con-
dition for minimum breakdown strength, below which
breakdown strength increases. The data is not eas-
ily transferred to large and non- uniform gaps and for
them the correction must be determined experimen-
tally.
--- 100 ι, o /• -Π"
o
0. 1
0.1 10 1 10 1000
ξ cm) pressure ξ distance (mm-Hg
Fig. 1.23 Gap breakdown voltage [1.6].

Generally, published values of flashover voltage
but are corrected to standard conditions. In both Eu-
rope and the USA these are air pressure = 1013 mb.,
air temperature= 20° C and moisture content= 11
gm/cubic meter. In older US practice these were air
α pressure 760 mm Hg, air temperature 25* C and = =
humidity - 15.5 mm Hg. Correction factors have been
developed for both air density and humidity. Α discus-
sion of those correction factors is beyond the scope of
this material, but they can be found in the literature
[1.11 and 1.12].
α
Engineering 1.6 Data on Breakdown 5
The following material provides some data on the
in breakdown voltage of various gap configurations. It is
not intended to be α complete review of the available
data; for that one is referred to the literature, some of
which is cited in the following sections.
1.6.1 Sphere Gaps at-
Sphere gaps provide α uniform field condition as
long as the spacing between the spheres is not too great
of - about half the sphere diameter. Breakdown depends
be mostly on the peak voltage, is not particularly affected
by polarity or waveshape and is, for standard atmo-
spheric conditions, about 30 kV/cm for small spac-
ings. Fig. 1.24 shows sparkover voltage for spheres
up to 25 cm diameter when energized with negative
polarity lightning impulses. It is also valid for switch-
ing impulses and for peak values of alternating power
frequency voltage. Sparkover with positive polarity
is only slightly different. Sparkover voltages of larger
spheres at larger spacings can be found in [1.13].
400
255
200 1.
1
6.25 cm 0
diameter 1.4/
~~~~α
0 , , , , 0 , 100 200
spacing -mm
Fig. 1.24 Sparkover voltage of sphere gaps.
14