Basic Insulation Levels: The transient control level
philosophy was originally inspired by the Basic Inbu-
lation Level, BIL, or transient coordination philosophy
used in the electric power field for many years [16.2].
developed in recognition that power equipment, such
surges to be subjected always would transformers as
of the magnitude that the lightning and by produced
Ex- terms. in statistical only be known could surges
were these surges that however, had shown, perience
equipment that and destroying equipment capable of
was It arresters. surge by protected to be would have
built into the insulation that as axiomatic taken also
abil- with the to be coordinated have would equipment
axiomatic as was taken it Also, arresters. ities of the
ratings standard to have be preferable it would that
number limited to the arresters, coordinated surge
voltages. operating ratings of standard
evolved that system coordination transient The
]ev- of insulation limited number a for provided [16.3]
23 kV equipment for kV BIL level a 150 such as els,
Equipment kV equipment. BIL for 115 and 550 kV
with in- was prcvided at 115 kV to operate designed
impulse and a U50 kV withstand sufficient to sulation
and every major piece was verified by test on each this
shipped. before it was of equipment
the l2vel to which only the kV represented The 550
the in be tested would equipment the knew designer
level the as representing taken never was and factory
surges to which the equipment would be subjected
that assurance was designer needed the All field. the
be used would and available was equipment protective
be less would surges occuring naturally that to ensure
margin. kV by a suitable 550 than
cor,- thus system BIL elements of the essential The
of: sisted
tran- Availability of equipment to control natural 1.
sients.
2. Standards covering equipment and practices for
performing tests.
limited number of standard voltage test 3. A levels.
protective test levels for surge 4. Struidard current
devices.
produced of b'!ing capable waveshapes, Standard 5.
laboratories. in many by equipment
6. Agreement to perform the tests using the stan-
dard test levels and to make changen in levels
only after it was agreed thet improved protective
equipment was commercially available,

The BIL system has been in place for many years.
is recognized world wide and hae resulted in electrical
power equipment that is very seldom damaged by the
It effects of lightning.
: An- Test (SWC) Capability Withstand Surge ANSI
of the development that influenced specification other
Surge With- (SWC) ANSI was the TCL philosophy
was in- The test 16.5]. Test [16.4, Capability stand
in high found the transients of simulation for tended
breakers circuit when substations voltage electrical
Tests had operated. were switches disconnect and
be might substations in such that equipment shown
kV of several voltages transient to oscillatory exposed
was specification the extent To some in magnitude. of
for those than other equipment of types to applied of
was because it largely intended, criginally which it was
stan- by recognized and in existence specification a
agencies. dardizing
of circuit voltages open called for The document
frequency with the oscillatory 2.5 and 3 kV, between
was specified MHz. Decrement 1.0 to 1.5 being from
in no less to 50% envelope decay that the by requiring
lower loss test circuit -. than 6 ,though this iwnplie,ý As
range The voltage might be found in practice. than
voltage in high for apparatus specified was reasouable
equip- electronic be high for might but substations,
locations. shielded in located ment of
in The original intent of the test was that the speci-
the terminals to directly applied be wold voltages fi,&d
not w.ould equipment the that verify to apparatus of
some- it is that has shown Experieice be damaged.
circuits by into voltagcs such inject to difficult times
transformer coupling.
of short importance the recognized document The
ohm source 150 a for called it capability in that circuit
impedance. The document also provided construction
details of a surge generator to produce the specified
wave. The recommended test generator circuit was
somewhat uncontrolled, using an untriggered spark
gap firinmg virtually at random at the crest of an ac
charging voltage, though the waveforn itself does not
iniply any particular generator test circuit.
Transients in residentiul wiring: Martzloff and How-
ell 6.6] [i proposed a transient voltage test with a fre-
range of 0 to 8 kV. of 100 kHz and a voltag: quency
of tran- for the duplication wave was intended The
sients found i, residential circuits on 120 V ac lines, for
corm- were that transients showed measurements which
few in a measured frequencies with oscillatory monly
hundred kHz. The damping was specified such that
the ratio of successive half-cycles should be greater
than This 0.6. might be somewhat high, particulariy is
the transient is to be coupled into equipment through
transformers.
428