all mechan- and to lose severely cracked them to be
filaments exposed Correspondingly, ical strength.
φ 2 or less ξ Α .σ 10'σ of 100 12dt values pulses with
or no evidence of degradation. little exhibited
was found failure mechanism of filament The
of the boron sheath, cracking and radial be transverse
expansion thermal by excessive caused presumably
fiaments Examples of cracked tungsten substrate. the
the calculated temper- in Fig. 6.54. Thus, are shown
filament failure of is α significant indication ature rise
currents, natural lightning onset. In comparison to
several thousand distributed over is noted that when
thou- stroke current of several α lightning filaments,
1 Α of current per may provide only sand amperes
us, it will in- exists for 100 filament. If this current
φ 2 2 Α .σ in α single I dt of 100 ξ 10' deed provide an
provide current exists for 20 ps, it will If this filament.
 φ 2 2 α single filament, etc. 20 ξ Α .σ in 10-σ an I dt, of
man- illustrates the the previous example While
may cause mechanical which lightning currents ner in
boron composite materials, degradation of property
in which in- relatively fiat region also illustrates the
in correspond- φ Pdt do not result creasing values of
de- For protection in temperature rise. ing increases
of distribut- the desirability emphasizes this fact sign,
filaments as many throughout lightning currents ing
as possible.
the flow into of current process the To explain
Penton, Perry, in α composite, filaments boron many
two model of an electrical formulated Lloyd [6.28] and
in Fig. matrix, as shown filaments in α resin boron
" IIIII IIIII
- -. - -. - - λ
~
24CC - -- lIllC-IIII
!I:λ
"1:11::
.= - I
Μ σ0100 40 40 20 1674910 4 1 3 0
111. Α|4 XIO°O
Fig. 6.53 Temperature rise of tungsten
filament. α boron of substrate

por- up of incremental filament is made 6.55. Each
These re- resistance. substrate the tungsten tions of to
break- filament-to--filament that the found searchers
the insulation 300 V and that is about voltage down
the back-to- by level is represented at this breakdown to
α reverse conduction which have Zener diodes, back
300V. of voltage (Zener) of
in the current flowing found that α lightning They
until the in tins filament would remain outer filament
boron and it exceeds the resistive voltage rise along
by the this being represented breakdown voltage, it resin
the neigh- point current enters Zener diodes, at which
this would be α filament filament. In most cases boring
some mate- of the laminate. While in the next ply
from the degradation undoubtedly occurs strength rial
the major and boron sheaths, breakdown of the resin
to be α result of teminper- strength was found loss of
of the boron filaments and cracking ature rise in the
entire length of the current flow. the sheaths along
fail by trans- in an outer layer When the filaments
their tung- resistances of or axial, cracking, the it verse,
so does increase (by cracking) and substrates also sten
until the breakdown along this layer, the voltage rise
and resin between it boron sheaths and level of the
this hap- When is reached. of filaments next layer the
of filaments, next layer current enters this pens, the
depth of penetration, continues. The and the process
duration amplitude and the both on depends of course,
of filaments current and the number of the lightning
can distribute. current this into which
Fig. 6.54 Cracking of boron filaments due
current. to excessive
157