With negative polarities the discharge is even
more discontinuous. Discharges frequently take place
in the air beyond the head of the leader and propa-
gate both forwards toward the grounded electrode and
backwards towards the advancing leader. The sketch
of Fig. 1.21, adapted from Fig. 17 of [1.1] and from
[1.10], shows the phenomenon. Note that the curva-
ture of the image due to the corona is opposite to that
of Fig. 1.20. With this geometry α leader also grows
from the grounded roQ towards the leader from the rod
to which voltage is applied,
Studies also show that with switching impulse
waves the critical breakdown voltage depends on the
front time of the voltage, there being α front time that
voltage. This front time is minimizes the breakdown
in the range 200-600 micro.seconds, but it depends on
the gap, being longer for longer gaps. the length of
red [the
-- - -
leader
Μ
cro
ε
corona
Π ground 7 time >-
plane
Fig. 1.21 Negative polarity sparkover of 3
meter gap rod to rod on plane gap.
1.5/1000 microsecond wave
[1.10]. Adapted from [1.1] and
pointed
electrode
applied
voltage
VR
Σ'I
Π \ý%σ
-electrode
time kV/cm 25
Factors 1.22 Fig.

The above is still α rather superficial description
of the breakdown process and some more discussion
is in order. Consider first the initial corona. The ini-
tial corona forms as soon as the electric field at the
energized electrode reaches α critical gradient of 30-33
kV/cm and continues to propagate as long as the elec-
tric field is greater than about 25 kV/cm. If the gap
is short or if the field in the gap is uniform the corona
will bridge the gap and lead to complete breakdown.
More commonly the corona bridges only α portion
of the gap, the extent of the corona depending on the
distribution of electric field across the gap, as illus-
trated on Fig. 1.22. With α rod or pointed electrode
the critical gradient will be reached at α lower volt-
more rounded electrode were used, but age than if α
electrode will be the highly stressed region around the
than with α rounded elec- smaller with α rod electrode
trode. The result is that with α rod electrode the initial
corona forms at α relatively low voltage, does not ex-
tend very far into the gap, and the initial velocity of
leader is relatively low.
Around α larger electrode with α more rounded
ex- voltage, α higher at forms corona initial the tip
"tends further into the gap and the initial velocity of
the leader is greater. If the electrodes are sufficiently
spherical electrodes, spaced with closely as rounded,
the initial corona, when it forms, extends all the way
to the other electrode and breakdown takes place in α
fraction of α microsecond.
Streamer gradient: The rate at which the stream-
ers extend themselves depends on the average gradient
across the unbridged portion of the gap. As the leader
works its way across the gap and places more voltage
on the unbridged portion of the gap the average gradi-
ent across the unbridged portion of the gap increases
with time and the velocity of the streamer increases.
to propagate as In general, the streamers will continue
long as the average gradient in the unbridged portion
rounded electrode
IIIfield
IIlines SI
II ro'iinded I
corona \\ pointed
- streamers
..
kV/cm 25
corona. initial influencing
13