tailed discussions of these effects and related protec-
tion methods are found in the succeeding chapters.
The emphasis of FAR 25.581 on the external and
bonding aspects of lightning protection does not, of
course, excuse the designer from actively identifying
and addressing all potentially hazardous direct and
indirect lightning effects. The first sentence of FAR
25.581 is the important general requirement:
The airframe must be protected against catas-
trophic effects of lightning.
5.2.2 Protection of the Fuel System
The emphasis of FAR 25.581 on the external as-
pects of lightning protection, and the occurrence of
several catastrophic accidents directly attributed to
lightning-related ignition sources within fuel tanks, led
to the addition of FAR 25.594, which focuses specific
attention on aircraft fuel systems, as follows:
9 25.954 Fuel system lightning protection.
The fuel system must be designed and ar.
ranged to prevent the ignition of fuel vapor
within the system by—
(a) Diroct lightning strikos to areas hav-
ing a high probability of stroke attachment;
(b) Swapt lightning strokes to arens where
swept strokes are highly probable; and
outlets. (c) Corona and streamering at fuel vont
Identical wording is found in the regulations for
General Aviation Aircraft (Part 23) and Rotorcraft
(Parts 27 and 29), shown in Table 5.1. Again the em-
due to the lightning strike attachment to exterior sur-
faces of the aircraft, but the frst sentence states the
important requirement:
The fuel system must be designed and ar-
ranged to prevent the ignition of fuel vapor
FAR 25.594 thereby addresses one of the most
important potential lightning hasards to an aircraft.
Acceptable means of compliance with this regulation
are described in a companion Advisory Circular (AC)
5.2].
5.2.3 Protection of Other Systems
No FAR's deal specifically with lightning protec-
tion of other systems, such as the flight control, propul-
sion, electrical and avionic systems. However, the gen-
eral safety regulations for equipment, systems and in-
stallations aboard the aircraft, stated in FAR 25.1309,
riquire protection against hasards resulting from any

foreseeable operating condition, one of which is a light-
ning strike, as follows:
s 25.1309 Equipment sysiems and installa-
tions.
(a) The equipment, systems, and installa-
tions whose functioning is required by this
subchapter, must be designed to ensure thnt
they perform their intended funetions under
any foreseeable operating condition.
(b) The airplane systems and associnted
components, considered separntely and in rola-
tion to other systems, must bo designed so
that-
(1) The occurrence of any failure con-
dition wiich would prevent the continued
safe Aight and lunding of the airplane is
extremely improbable, and
(2) The occurrence of any other failure
conditions which would result in injury to
the occupants, or reduce the capability of
the airplane or the ability of the crew to
cope witls adverse opernting conditions is
improbable.
(c) Warning information mmust be pro-
vided to alert the crew to unsafe system op.
erating conditions, und to ennblo them to take
approprinte corrective action. Systems, con-
trols, and associnted monitoring and wurning
means must be designed so thint crow errors
that would croute additionnt huzards nr:
improlable.
(d) Compliance with the roquiroments of
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section must
bo shown by anntysis, and whorw necesary, by
approprinte ground, flight, or flight simulator
tests. Tio analysis must considor--
(1) Possible modes of failurs, including
malfunetions and dlamngo from externnl
courres,
(8) The probability of multiple failures
and undotected fniluros.
(8) The resulting effects on the nirplane
und acugunta, considering the stugo of
flight nnd oporating conditione, anl
(4) Tho crew warning cuer, cormctive
netion requirot, and tho capmbility of detoct.
ing fnulta.
(o) Each instatlation whena funetioning in
roquired by this subehaptor, aad thnt roquiros
a juower suppty. in an "esantint lond" ons the
power supply. Tho power moures aud the sys.
trm must le abloe to supply tho following puower
komds in promblo oporating coanbinntions and
for prdmblo cturntioms:
(1) Lands connertel to the system with
tho system functioning normnlly.
(2) Eswontint londa, atter fnilurn of any
ono prioe mover. p*ower comverter, or cnergs
sorage dosicv.
16