INTRODUCTION
cer- aircraft design and handbook will assist This
aircraft against the engineers in protecting tification
in com- effects of lightning strikes, direct and indirect
pertaining Federal Aviation Regulations pliance with
to assist also intended It is protection. lightning to
engineers in assessing the adequacy of FAA certifying
designs. It will also be lightning protection proposed
as en- major subsystems, such useful for designers of
systems, and electrical and avionics gines
'rhis The type. of this handbook second is the
entitled also such handbook, first Protec- Lightning
was J.A. Pluiner, and F.A. Fisher by tion of Aircraft
Aeronautics and published in 1976 by the National
as Since that Space Administration NASA RP-1008.
have been major advances book was published there
and test practices, techniques, standards in protection
with the indirect electro- particularly in those dealing
effects of lightning, magnetic
commissioned by was which new handbook, This
an up- intended to be was originally FAA in 1986, the
the project but as of version dated RP-1008, NASA
topics, not additional became evident that it evolved,
be incorporated should earlier book, in the included
to be needed material the original of that much and
and expanded. completely rewritten
lines same general the organized along is The book
with with the first half dealing as the earlier work,
of lightning effects (burning and blasting) the direct
effects indirect with the half dealing second and the
and currents) voltages of induction (electromagnetic
lightning, of
are book in this found material new the Among
phys- and basic technologies with dealing chapters two
1 - Chapter these, first of The ical concepts. Intro- An
the with deals Phenomena, Voltage to High duction
and arcs and electrical sparks voltage of high nature
ion- formation, charge electric processes of with related
these are All of in air. propagation and spark ization,
that lightning leaders attach factors that affect the way
hot return stroke aircraft and the way that the to an
The ma- to which it attaches. arc affects the surface
terms used for many practices and terial introduces
which are the electric power industry, but years in
with aircraft. dealing by those studied commonly not
the have, however, affected Those terms and practices
to evaluate the direct effects tests and practices used
lightning on aircraft. of
second, Chapter 9 - The of Elementary Aspects
electromagnetic of the some reviews Effects, hIdirect
cur- and of voltages induction govern that phenomena
some fields and introduces by electromagnetic rents
concepts encountered of the terms and mathematical

effects of light- treatments of the indirect in analytic
as a complete review ning. The chapter is not intended
so some subjects occur theory, but of electromagnetic
that it seemed treatments of indirect effects often in
in some detail, review them all at once, and better to
them piecemeal in subsequent rather than introducing
chapters.
is urged to study The user of this hsr.dbook
chapters before proceeding these two introductory
The treatment of sections of the book. with other
and is aided on an elementary level these topics begins
with those enable should which illustrations simple by
to to proceed in electricity background a limited only
principles. of important understanding an adequate
include Other topics not found in RP-1008 NASA
phenomenology and a review of intra-cloud lightning
flashes by aircraft (Chapters the triggering of lightning
research during the 3 and 10), the topic of considerable
description of the 1980-1987, a more thorough years
design and cer- steps in lightning prote,-tion procedural
treatment complete and a more 5), (Chapter tification
advanced composite methods for design of protection
area This latter 6). (Chapter structures materials and
there RP 1008, in NASA only brief treatment received
with these materials experience little practical being
com- Advanced was published. book time that at the
in fixed widely employed have since become posites
of methods and rotorcraft, and efficient aircraft wing
lightning damage have evolved. protecting them from
on certification includes a discussion The new material
verifying and in reaching be followed steps to of the
sys- and avionic electrical critical for flight protection
electronic controls, digital authority as full such tems,
in being formalized presently are steps These FADEC.
circular. advisory regulation and FAA a new
tests effects on indirect new material Finally,
is another This 18. in Chapter is presented, methods
have been made considerable improvements area where
im- future though 1008, RP of NASA publication since
to continue. expected are provements
is organized in a similar Elsewhere, the handbook
on to with chapters fashion Natural NASA RP-1008,
2), Lightning (Chapter Aircraft Lightning Attachment
on 3) and (Chapter Air- Lightning Effects Phenomena
these 4). Users should be familiar with craft (Chapter
verification and with design proceeding before topics
tasks.
Process begins with Chapter 5, The Certification
per- of airworthiness regulations FAA a description
description of followed by a taining to lightning,
the environment, lightning external the standardized
to an aircraft, environment this of applying method
and ver- remaining steps in protection design and the
shown that designs evolved ification. Experience has
xi