ground, and that single-point ground was located at a
pane! in the gun bay. By and large, none of the control
wiring in the aircraft was shielded,
P-- Wps IlO~p---
Fig. 8.17 Location of fly-by-wire control system
hardware ind wiring bundles in F-8
aircraft.
In contrast to the tests on the wing Test techniques:
of the F-8PJ aircraft, in which high amplitude currents
were injected into the wing from a high power surge
generator, the tests on the complete F-8 aircraft were
made using the lightning trarsient analysis technique
described in §8.6 and Chapter 13. During the tests
on the F-8, the injected current was on the order of
A. In 300 the measurements that will be shown, the
amplitudes refer to that injected current. To scale the
rerults to what would be produced by a fairly com-
mon 30 kA lightning current the measured amplitudes
should be multiplied by 100. To scale the results to
the design level amplitude of 200 kA they should be
multiplied by 666.
were em- waveshapes current different Several
will reference frequent most which to the one ployed;
is that test results set of this abbreviated iii be ma9-
to crest rising a current fast waveform, as the deFcribed
in about 60 ps. to half value 3 ps and decaying in about
8.18. The fast in Fig. waveforms are shown These
that which representative of is the one most waveshape
is now recommended for such tests,
Fore aad aft circuit: The first set of measurements
to which referenee will be made was that on a set of
spare conductozs running between an interface box in
the gun bay end a disconnect panel located near the
leading edge of the vertical stabilizer. The routing of
the circuit is shown in Fig. 8.19(a) and the waveforms
of the voltages are shown in Fig. 8.19(b). The voltage
measured between the conductor and ground consisted
of high-amplitude ,A oscillatory component and a lower ,
amplitule, but longer duration component. This is
the paitern that is most commonly noted on voltages
induced by lightning currents.

-•
z II
1- -4 s - 100 h-10ps
Fig. 8.18 Simulated lightning test waveforms.
(a) Slow wave
(b) Intermediate wave
(c) Fast wave
Voltages measured between conductors, shown in
Fig. 8.19(c), were much smaller than the voltages
measured between either of the conductors and the
airframe. Such results would be expected on a well-
balanced circuit. The voltages were, however, not zero,
and one should not assume that voltages on twin con-
ductor circuits will be low enough to eliminate prob-
leins.
excited was voltage of oscillatory component The
leaking fields) possibly electric (and flux magnetic by
compo- duration the longer while the aircraft, inside
the through of current by the flow was produced nent
the voltages aircraft. Since resistance of the structural
flux were propor- of magnetic the leakage induced by
that of that flux, it follows to the rate of change tional
the oscillatory component would have been more pro-
aircraft into the injected faster currents nounced for
than it was for slower currents. This effect was noted,
as indicated the oscillograms. by
Circuit to wing position Indicator: The second set of
measurements was made on a circuit running from the
interface control unit and the gun bay to a wing po-
sition indicator switch located underneath the leading
edge of the wing. The wing on the aircraft F-8 could
be taised or lowered around a pivot point towards its
rear in order to achieve a lower pitch angle during land-
ing and takeoff and the purpose of the switch was to
indicate the position of the wing.
235