Equipment transient design level: The ETDL con-
trolling the type of circuit or circuit protection tech-
niques used, and assigned to the avionics designer,
would be higher than the transient control level by
margin reflecting how important it was that lightning
did not in fact interfere with the piece of equipment
under design. A margin is necessary because any sin-
gle lightning flash might produce an actual transient
level higher than the assigned transient control level,
which would have been derived for a predicted average
in spite of the cable designer's good intentions. Pre-
diction of actual transient levels is an imperfect art.
Vulnerability and susceptibility levels: The job of
the avionics designer would be to ensure that the vul-
nerability and susceptibility levels of the equipment to
be supplied would be higher than the assigned tran-
sient design level. The vulnerability level is that level
of the transient which, if applied to the input or out-
put circuit under question, would cause the equipment
to be permanently damaged. The susceptibility level
is defined as that level of transient that would result
in interference with or malfunction of the equipment.
The vulnerability level by definition, then, would have
to be at least as high as the susceptibility level.
Ways of setting levels: Some fundamental points
about the setting levels are: of
1. Levels must be compatible with the existing state
of the art of providing protection by shielding and
grounding of interconnecting wiring.
2. The levels must be compatible with the perfor-
mance of existing surge protective devices. The
minimum level of voltage to which protective de-
vices can clamp surges is frequently several times
the normal operating voltage of the system being
protected.
There are several ways in which the levels might
be set. In the first, the system integrator would set
the desired transient level, then set the required mar-
gin, which in turn would set the transient control level.
Whatever the rationale by which the system integrator
sets the transient design level, that level would become
a part of the purchase specificrtions and would, pre-
sumably, not be subject to variation by the vendor of
the avionics.
As an alternative, the avionics designer might de-
. termine by suitable testing the vulnerability and sus-
ceptibility levels of his equipment and provide a guar-
antee as to the level of transients that his equipment
could withstand. That level would then be the tran-
sient design level. After the system integrator had set

the desired safety margin, the appropriate transient
control level for the cable designer would have been
established. One approach to the setting of margins
a appears in [16.81.
and Open circuit voltage short circuit current: The
magnitude that would be assigned to the transient de-
sign level probably should be expressed in terms of
the maximum voltage appropriate to a high imped-
ance circuit (open circuit voltage) or the maximum
current appropriate to a low impedance circuit (short
circuit current).
Test levels: In order for the TCL philosophy to have
most impact, there should be a limited number of lev-
els. One set of levels that has been proposed [16.12]
is shown in Table 16.1. With each level there was as-
sociated an open circuit voltage and a short circuit
current; the two being related by the transient source
impedance shown in Fig. 16.10 [16.121.
Table 16.1 Possible Transient Control Levels
Open Circuit Short Circuit
Level Voltage Level Current Level
Number (vol ts) (amperes)
1 60 2.2
2 150 5.4 300 1]. 3
4 600 22
1500 5 54
6 3000 110
7 6000 220
Source impedance: If impedance is not defined in
transient specifications there is the risk of a specifi-
cation being worded so as to require that a specified
voltage be developed regardless of the character or im-
pedance of the object under test. A specification that
can be taken, rightly or wrongly, as requiring that a
test voltage of 1000 volts must be developed across a
spark gap that flashes over at 500 volts and shorts an
input surge to ground is clearly deficient. Likewise, a
specification that can be read as requiring that a spec-
ified current be developed, regardless of impedance, is
deficient.
Transient test specifications for aircraft and elec-
tronic equipment usually avoid such problems by defin-
ing both open circuit voltage and short circuit current.
The intent is that if a circuit has a high impedance
it is appropriate to define the voltage that should be
developed and if the circuit is low impedance it is ap-
propriate to define the maximum surge current.
If only voltage is defined, and not current, situa-
tions can arise in which design and test effort is totally
wasted. An example might be for designers to place
impedance in series with a spark gap so that, by brute
force and the flow of enormous current, a specified volt-
age can be developed across a protected circuit. Such
an effort would be totally contrary to the purpose of
using a spark gap in the first place.
431