ENTRY ,INITIAL •
Typical path of Fig. 3.18
to any would not be subjected edge, of course, trailing
is the lightning channel action. Instead, swept stroke
aft of the aircraft. horizontally extended
of, or away usually fly out does not The aircraft
the potential dif- is becaxuse channel. This from, the
or an- centers (cloud and earth ference between charge
a very long chan- to maintain cloud) is sufficient other
and each other have neutralized until the charges nel
flash dies. the
Zones Attachment Lightning 3.6
where aircraft the on regions some are there Since
will others which and to attach, is unlikely lightning
of portion a small for only attachment to be exposed
the define appropriate to it is duration, flash the total
to be exposed will which surface the aircraft on zones
receive flash and therefore of the different components
degrees of effects. types and different
3.6.1 Zone Definitions
Avi- design, the Federal of protection For purpose
in its Advi- has defined (FAA) ation Administration
zones: [3.21] the following Circular sory AC 20-53A
low possibility point with Initial attachment Zone IA:
channel hang-on. of lightning
high possibil- point with Initial attachment 18: Zone
channel hang-on. ity of lightning
of possibility low with zone swept-stroke A 2A: Zone
hang-on. lightning channel
possibility of high with zone swept-stroke A 2B: Zone
hang-on. channel lightning
3: within airframe that lie portions of the Zone Those
sub- may carry the other zones, which between or
by conduction of electrical current stantial amounts
O stroke attachment areas of direct or swept between
points,

ENTRY FINAL
EXIT FINAL EXIT INITIAL
points. swept-flash attachment
en- which the external the means by Zones are
The locations to the aircraft. is applied vironment
on the are dependent zones on any aircraft of these
and operational factors, materials aircraft's geometry,
There- to another. from one aircraft and often vary
for each aircraft must be made fore, a determination
configuration.
airworthiness nor any other Neither AC 20-53A
of the zones the actual locations prescribe standards
zone the locations of each aircraft since on a particular
and oper- aircraft's geometry upon the are dependent
to an- vary from one aircraft factors, and may ational
not matter, subjective is a zones the Defining other.
are usu- Actual zones to exact analysis. one amenable
to reference by aircraft designer by the established ally
design of similar aircraft with experience past inflight
mod- scale tests on lightning strike of the aid or with
on specific of strike zones for locations els. Guidance
together with further 5, is given in Chapter aircraft
air- affecting examples of the factors and discussion
craft lightning attachments and zone locations.
of Aircraft Triggered Mechanism 3.7
Lightning
is defined as lightning Aircraft triggered lightning
and presence of an aircraft because of the which occurs
pi- frequent theme in occur. A would not otherwise
that the aircraft is strikes to of lightning lots' reports
evidence of there was any struck before aircraft was
commonly area, and a belief activity in the lightning
lightning the triggered aircraft the that is expressed
just being an inadver- flash, rather than the aircraft
occurring naturally a which bystander through tant
pass. to chose flash lightning
in- can aircraft that accumulated has Evidence
been devel- and theories have lightning deed trigger
established It is well to explain the mechanism. oped
into charged intentionally flown aircraft that research
flashes and that these triggered flashes clouds have
It is not as evident the aircraft. originated at have
and seek- conditions flown under normal that aircraft
55