flash
(α)
lens
direction moving film
anaa/ (β) oaaanaaa
, (β)PUVVV
or 7 ν
dart stepped leader leader
first subsequent stroke return
stroke return
continuing front
current tail) (χ)
. Ξ,)
rediate
Fig. 2.1 Generalized nature of negative
cloud-to-ground lightning.
(α) Orientation of lens and film in α
Boys camera
(β) Image of α flash
(χ) Major components
Eventually the two join and there occurs α very
bright first return stroke. Later α dart starts leader
at the cloud, progresses directly to ground and is
lowed by α subsequent return The pattern stroke.
dart leader - return stroke may repeat several times.
The return strokes are characterized by four regions;
α front lasting for α few microseconds or less, α
lasting for times measured in tens of microseconds, an
intermediate current lasting for α few milliseconds and
α continuing that may flow for up to α second current
or more. The intermediate current and continuing cur-
rents may not always occur and sometimes there may
only be only one return stroke.
Each of these aspects of the flash will be discussed
in the following sections. For α more complete discus-
sion of the mechanism of the lightning discharge
reader is referred to the literature, of which (2.1 2.4) --
are probably θ• most most complete. Each of them
contains extensive bibliographies and this chapter will
not make any attempt to provide α complete review
the literature.

Flash Lightning the of Generation 2.2
generation with the originates lightning flash The
of charge, after, which the lightning flash develops by
1. in Chapter discussed mechanism streamer the
of the Charge Generation 2.2.1
The exact mechanism by which electrical charge
but there develops in clouds is still α matter of dispute,
little doubt that the energy that produces lightning is
is provided by warm air rising upwards into α develop-
ing cloud. As the air rises it becomes cooler, and at the
into wa- water vapor condenses dew point, the excess
risen the air has When forming α cloud. droplets, ter
the to -400C, to drop the temperature for enough high
At lower eleva- ice. to frozen have will vapor water
that drops water supercooled be many will tions there
is lower the temperature though even frozen, not are
than the freezing point. In this supercooled region, ice
form. hailstones crystals and
cloud becomes theory [2.5], the According to one
electrically charged by the following process. Some of
into hail- coalesce which have formed the ice crystals
stones. These hailstones fall through the cloud gather-
ing additional supercooled water droplets. As droplets
freeze onto α hailstone, small splinters of ice chip off.
Apparently, these splinters carry away α positive elec-
trical charge, leaving the hailstone with α net nega-
tive charge. The vertical wind currents in the cloud
carry the ice splinters into the upper part of the cloud,
while the hailstone, being heavier, falls until it reaches
warmer air, where some portion of it melts and the
remainder continues to earth. Thus, the upper part
of the cloud takes on α charge that is predominantly
fol- positive while the lower regions take on α charge that
of is predominantly negative.
Other theories [2.5 - 2.11) have been proposed
to account for the electrification of the cloud. All of
them are based on experimentally observed evidence tail
that the charge in the top of the cloud is positive,
while the lower portions of the clouds contain negative
charge. Most of the early work on the distribution of
charge in clouds was based on indirect evidence from
the changes in electric field at ground level as lightning
flashes take place. Such measurements can give am-
biguous results, part icularly if the electric field changes
are observed at only one location, α matter discussed
the further in [2.3). Direct measurement of charges by air-
craft or instrumented balloons are more reliable. All
the observations though. indicate that the top of the
cloud does have α positive charge, that the niiiddle re-
of gions of the cloud have negative charge and that there
charge near the base of the are also pockets of positive
20