4
SCOMPONENT
iAAII
see TCT(I Sel IC 5Ξ 10, 025
scalel to (not Time
SAE 5.2 Fig.
[5.8] report committee SAE The book". "Red SAE
and design for aircraft US standard the became rapidly
as known It quickly became testing. certification
of its cover, the color after "red book", SAE
the SAE Corn- "Blue book": Beginning in 1974, SAE
with similar its work coordinating had begun mittee
activities taking place in lightning standardization
review of proposed Europe. An in-depth UK and
Culham Laboratory at Oxford, standards was held at
in changes and improvements UK in 1975, resulting
some details.
the US/UK/Europe deliberations Following
of industry use and comment, 1975, and α period
in 1978 α slightly revised SAE Committee published
entitled: set of standards in its report Lightning Test
and and Techniques Waveforms Vehicles for Aerospace
(5.10]. document superseded and [5.8] Hardware This
It soon became known was given α blue cover.
as the US standard "blue book" and continued the
testing, design and certification for aircraft protection
certify- and military aircraft. Foreign of both civil
via bilateral agencies have accepted this standard ing
agreements.
the "red book" and "blue book" defined The SAE
strike zones, and test methods, lightning environment,
requirements did not define lightning protection but
con- These were left to individual or pass/fall criteria.
aircraft, and to FAA tracts, in the case of military
. to civil aircraft, regulations applicable
UK/Europe stan- The SAE and corresponding
era focused mostly on direct dards of the 1975-1978
of indirect effects and test meth- fects, as mechanisms
fully understood evaluating them were not yet ods for

stroke Initial Α: COMPONENT
hAl 10% 2 200 amplitude Peak
2 6 20% 2 Α λ, 10 ι integral Action *
1σ (9600 duration Time
current Continuing C: COMPONENT
20% * coulombs 200 α transfer Charge
200400Α Amplitude u
current U: Intermediate,
coulombs 10 0 transfer charge Maximum
10% 2 α kA amplitude Average *
Restrike 0: COMPONENT
kA 1 10% - 00 amplitude Peak
2 ξ τ 20% 106 Α 'Σ Action integral 0.25 α
(BOOMS < Time duration
-
σ~ec
components. current flash lightning
devel- Research, by specialists. upon widely agreed or
areas in these activities standardization and opment
1975, with and Europe since in the US continued the have
agreement today widespread there is result that the
against protection verify and to design methods on
world- effects. Also, research has continued indirect
envi- lightning the natural of other aspects wide into
flashes of intra-cloud the ronment, such as characteristics
Re- aircraft lightning interaction. and mechanisms of
begun to be incorporated sults of this research have
documents. in into recent standards
Space Shuttle Lightning of 5.5.4 NASA
Criteria the
was announced The NASA Space Shuttle program
α panel thereafter NASA convened in 1970 and shortly
and test specialists to of lightning phenomenologists
environment and other formulate α standard lightning as
Shuttle program. Concern requirements for the Space
to the Shuttle potential lightning hazards regarding
with α to the earlier NASA experience was high due
during launch, strike to the Apollo 12 mission lightning
by earlier lightning hazards experiencad and to other
The vehicles and launch facilities, NASA and DOD
1973 of the was publication in result of this activity
Document, designated JSC Lightning Criteria Shuttle
en- This document presented α lightning [5.11]. 07636
cer- protection requirements, and vironment, vehicle
Shuttle el- guidelines for use by the tain basic design
protection require- contractors in meeting the ement
ef- ments.
deliberations and the publication of All of these
influenced, the predated, and significantly JSC 07636
97