other 'lton thait, spr•ads iilo the, simultaneously half,
shorting the two conductors τ'gethe; and to ground.
(α) Iproblems
Fig. 17.13 Spark sgaps on α conductor pair.
gaps gve high separate (α) Two
voltage mode common
terminal gap (β) Three
and any Spark gaps, considerations: Appication
other voltage limiting device for thi .τ matter, must be
1
rated to withstand the normal maximum voltage ex-
pected on the circuit being protected. Provision must
also be made to de-energize the circuit and allow them
to regain their insulating properties. On power cir-
cuits. this is most commonly done with fuses that are
blown or circuit breakers that are tripped by the sys-
tem current that flows once the gap has been caused
to spark. Scircuit
For protection of semiconductors and electronic
boards, spark gaps may not be the most ef-
fective type of protective device. In particular, it is
not advisable to place them directly on circuit boards
in close proximity to sensitive semiconductors since
they spark ovei ýτ relatively high voltages and upon
sparkover may be called upon to ca'rty high currents.
from away kept be can currrents high these further The
the sensitive equipment the better.
Spark gaps might best bt considered as the first
line of defense against high energy surges, placed well
away from the most sensitive equipment, and used
in conjunction with devices that have lower voltage
clamping levels, but less ability to carry high surge
currents.
Failure mode: Most commonly, failure of α spark gap,
either because of excessive surge current or because
of excessive power system current following sparkover,
will either shatter the case or burn away the connecting
leads, causing the gap to fail open circuit,
Advantages of spark gaps:
1. Simple and reliable.
2. Low voltag- drop during the conducting state,
typically 10 to 20 V.

3. Ga-filled Large power-handlinj capability. gaps
have the highest peak current handling capabili-
ties of any transient protection device, and almost
"any gap can handle the maximum surge currents
induced by lightning.
4. High impedance and low capacitance. The low
shunt capacitance and leakage current character-
istics of gas-filled spark gaps minimize insertion
for operating frequencies below 1 GHz.
characteris- the same having operation, 5. Bilateral
polatity. either on tics
Disadvantages:
voltage. sparkover Relatively high 1.
2. Power system follow current must be extinguished
by removing the voltage (circuit breaker of fuse)
or by inserting resistance rapidly into the circuit
by an additional element, such as α zinc oxide
varistor.
3. May have α large dependence of sparkover voltage
on the waveshape of the voltage.
4. Reflect more energy than they absorb.
5. Rapid change of voltage on sparkover may excite
circuit ringing.
Resistors Non-Linear 17.4.2
Non-linear resistors, or varistors, may be charac-
terized by the expression
I (17.1) KVN =
where N and K are device constants dependent on the
varistor material.
Varistors may be constructed of silicon carbide,
This sec- selenium, or metal oxide, usually zinc oxide.
tion will concentrate on metal oxide varistors, MOVs,
117.1] since in recent years they have almost completely
supplanted the other materials. Zener diode type pro-
tectors can be considered as another of the non- linear
resistors since their volt-ampere characteristics also
follow Eq. 17.1, but since their fabrication is much
different from MOVs, they will be treated separately
in §17.4.3.
Formulation: Metal oxide varistors are formed from
zinc okide grains, Fig. 17.14, which, when pressed
together and sintered into ceramic parts, act as though
there were non-linear semiconductor junctions at the
443