Chapter 16
TO MINIMIZE DESIGN
16.1 Introduction
This chapter covers some of the ways that indirect
effects can be controlled, focusing mostly on matters
locations as a whole, such as that involve the aircraft
wiring. Phrased another and types of for equipment
way, the chapter deals primarily with matters of basic
protection against lightning with and policy regarding
integration. systems of matters basic
Some of the policy steps involved in controlling
indirect effects are:
1. Specify the requirements.
for equipment. locations best the Choose 2.
3. Choose the best locations for wiring.
4. Choose good wiring and grounding practices.
specifications. with transients actual 5. Coordinate
6. Explicitly require that equipment withstand tran-
sients.
transient performance be verified 7. Require that
test.
These points are discussed in the following sec-
tions. The goals for design in §16.2 may seem
evident, but are frequently not followed. Location
of equipment, §16.3, and locations for wiring, §16.4,
discuss general good practice. Section 16.5 discusses
shielding of interconnecting wiring and brings up
percanial controversy of single vs. multiple point
grounding of shields, a subject that was covered
detail in Chapter 15. Determining the transient levels
was the subject of Chapters 9 -14. Design of equip-
ment is discussed further in Chapter 17 and verifica-
tion testing is discussed in Chapter 18.
The transient control level concept is becoming
more widely used for aircraft, but since it is still fairly
new, it is explained in some detail, including discus- a
sion of its historical development,
Goals and Requirements 16.2
The minimum requirements regarding indirect
fects are probably:

INDIRECT EFFECTS
1. Indirect effects should not cause physical damage.
interference that effecL should not cause 2. Indirect
to the safety of the an imminent hazard presents
vehicle or its crew, or interference that presents
completion of air- a severe risk of preventing the
mission. craft's
Other interference, though undesirable, might be
tolerated. For example, indirect effects that cause
warning lights to appear might be considered accept-
able whereas indirect effects that lead to the tripping
if it even unacceptable, circuit breakers might be of
were possible to reset the circuit breakers. Interfer-
ence that leads to the scrambling of one channel of a
redundant digital control system is probably accept-
able, but interference that causes computers to shut
the computers if particularly unacceptable, is down
are shut down in a disorderly manner which results in
the internally stored programs being scrambled.
Some general premises that go along with these
by goals might be:
1. It is more productive to design electronic equip-
ment so that it can accept lightning induced tran-
self sients on input and output leads than it is to ini-
tiate a retrofit program to provide protection to
an existing system.
the 2. It is more practical to design an electronic sys-
tern around the capabilities of existing and proven
in protective devices or techniques than it is to de-
velop and retrofit new and improved protective
techniques to an electronic system designed with-
out consideration of the transients that might be
produced by lightning.
3. Trade-offs must be made between the cost of pro-
viding electronic equipment capable of withstand-
ing lightning induced transients and the cost of
shielding equipment and interconnecting wiring
lightning. of effects electromagnetic the from
4. Designers should take as much advantage as poe-
ef- sible of the inherent shielding that aircraft struc-
tures are capable of supplying and should avoid
421