Arc Sources -
(b)
seurces eliminate ignition design to Wing stiffener Fig. 7.33
fasteners - penetrating (a) Conventional
stiffeners Improved -integral (b)
current prevents clip. This of the interior surface to the shown in method, Another spars: Non-conductive
the shear of the back to the fastener from arcing from or aramid of fiberglass the use illustrates 7.35, Fig.
tie at the surface. spars within a to fabricate composites fiber reinforced
7.31 in Figs. illustrated designs The structural tend lightning currents In this case, wing fuel tank.
of approach the kinds are examples of 7.37 through against bear these because fasteners flow into not to
va- fuel potential to eliminate can be followed that not consti- and do surfaces interior non-conducting
the "brute avoid concepts These sources. ignition por considera- strength Mechanical paths. current tute
im- that overcoat extensive sealant of methods force" material CFC than of other use preclude may tions
regarding and concerns penalties and weight pose cost can approaches other so, several and ribs. If spars for
to de- encouraged are Designers durability. life-cycle These through fasteners. current to interrupt be used
Since same ends. the to achieve approaches velop other and 7.37. in Figs. 7.36 illustrated are
as small di- factors such failure depends on or success
performance whose and tightness mensions, clearances the 7.36 illustrates Fig. ties: shear Non-conductive
designs should candidate be predicted, cannot always called tie, sometimes shear a non-conductive use of
tests. simulated lightning by be evaluated always current paths electric clip, to interrupt a clip or shear
structural insulating employing electrically When are conduc- which structures and interior skin between
illustrated as current, lightning to interrupt materials remain conductive, to these elements allows tive. This
that be remembered must 7.37, it 7.36 and in Figs. tank in the remain currents that lightning yet ensures
extremities, between must be provided paths current at fasteners. arc sources potential eliminates skin and
con- tips and empennage and wing tail, nose, as such
may be elements non-conductive surfaces. Thus, to trol is not possible sparks: If it of fastener Prevention
and the tank skins, tank, but utilized within a CFC a 7.37 illustrates tie, Fig. shear use a non-conducting
fabricated of conductive be spars, must the main often at the fastener. internal sparking of controlling method
lightning currents. of conducting materials capable is bonded laminate ply or multi-ply A non-conductive
204