of Loss butt joints, and seams are usually simple done to inate. Ply joints: Work has been strength at
at such flow through adjacent plies by light- electric currents degree of strength loss caused evaluate the
ning currents in composite joints. Schneider, Hen- seams. 1
layers may some lightning. protective Seams in have studied the effects and Takashims [6.25] dricks,
manner to al- or bridged in some need to be applied typical bonded and bolted currents on of lightning
Protective arcing. and minimize low current transfer and their preliminary composites, of graphite joints
and ex- splicing include wire meshes more damage layers requiring that bonded joints suffer findings show
be separate pieces of the panded foils. Splices can do bolted joints. Other lightning currents than from
Two common designs are foil, or overlaps. various joints, with mesh or [6.26] have also been made on tests
case, the amount of in Fig. 6.49. In either referred to these sources illustrated similar results. The reader is
depends on the to transfer currents that re- overlap necessary information on the specific joints for further
been Overlaps of 1 cm (0.5 in) have they have current density. have evaluated and the results that searchers
2.5 kA per cm of transferring currents of found capable obtained,
without debond- across overlaps or splices should be tested (1 kA/in) Candidate bond and joint designs
adjoining pieces are or excessive arcing, when the to verify that these ing with anticipated current densities
and in with the underlying laminate without co- cured along tolerate the design level currents joints can
Larger overlaps, of up good contact with each other. loss of mechanical strength.
are usually necessary at joints to about 5 cm (2 in.)
Application Considerations 6.5.3 densities, as would exist at exposed to higher current
other structures in which or empennage tips, or wing
Other aspects of lightning protection design for lightning currents are high.
ar- cloth or tape layup patterns, CFC skins include
bonded overlaps which are secondarily Splices and electrical bonding to fasten- of ply seams, rangement
conductive as adhesive are not nearly as each of with α layer of Brief discussions of era and repair techniques.
conduc- separates the adhesive splices because cocured topics follow. these
bonds arcing. If secondary and promotes layers tive
and be non-supported used, adhesives should must be that woven Experience has shown patterns: Layup
and curing bagging thickness. Vacuum of minimum ef- lightning strike of tolerant are more fabrics cloth
maximum encourage so as to be conducted should tapes. of unidirectional made are laminates fects than
or splice. overlap in the contact metal-to-metal cloth the woven in yarns of carbon The interweaving
blast of shock propagation due to restricts damage
plies also have more uni- wave effects, and the cloth
form electrical conductivity.
hand, tend to tapes, on the other Unidirectional
CFC dis- greater for damage causing tape, the along unwind
laminate wo- for case the is than point the strike tances from
wire mesh, tends to be ven cloths. Also, electrical conductivity
expanded foil) of the tapes and less somewhat better in the direction
overlap (α) lightning cur- causes This directions. perpendicular in
laminate α into deeper penetrate to damage, and rents,
in all directions. to final conductive paths
le protection ply being pro- laminates are also less capable of Τ•pe 5
metallized yarns, as with interwoven wires or tected
CFC kutt Join by these methods improved conductivity afforded the
(β) the conductive direction of in the only achieved is often
protection-, overlap o fibers.
ply typical)- cm -5 (1 purposes, strength for utilized be must tapes If
CFC the on plies cloth include to possible is sometimes it
This affords outer surfaces of α laminate. inner and
(χ) wires, interwoven cloth with to utilize the opportunity
configurations of splices Fig. 6.49 Typical lightning protection purposes. or metallized cloth for
plies. protective in layups CFC cloth necessary in are Seams seams: Ply
Concept the (α) of cloth meet. As long as where the edges of pieces
(β) Splice plies do not coincide, there will be seams of adjacent
adequate electrical conductivity throughout the lain- (χ) Overlap
154