to in proportion the two branches divide between will
and the inductances, but α pulse with α long front
tail time will divide in proportion to the resistances.
α long tail time front time and with α short Α pulse
inductance, proportion to the in initially divide will
and ultimately will change the distribution but then
resistance. become governed by the
"Redistribution of One way sum of components: as α
in current the to consider is phenomenon the viewing
sum of two of the to be composed the two branches
component governed by components; α steady state
gov- current circulating α transient resistances and the
The of the circuit. time constants by the erned Λ/R
transient circulating current will eventually die away
circulating current is into the energy injected as the
the in- the circuit. If the resistance of consumed by
com- circulating duration, the has α finite jected pulse
in the individ- the current will cause ponent of current
current. than the applied branches to last longer ual
one of the branches the current in also cause It will
the of polarity to the direction opposite α flow in to
pulse. injected
structures. aircraft in occur phenomena Similar
terms in described completely be cannot they Usually
as such equivalent circuits, simple of circuits, though
phe- illustrate the can often help of Fig. 11.11, that
magnetic internal In some cases involved. nomenon
fields develop of such α waveshape that it is difficult
to distinguish between magnetically induced voltages
effects. by diffusion voltages influenced resistive and
will be discussed phenomena redistribution These
then illustrated and elliptical cylinder for an first
in which the phenomena for more complex structures
by numerical means. be calculated must
Cylinders Elliptical 11.4.1
which into cylinder elliptical an shows 11.17 Fig.
the in §11.3.1, As injected. is current step-function α
end all that enough long be to is assumed cylinder
compared is short it that be neglected, may effects
of components frequency any of wavelengths the to
the for path return the and that injected current, the
effects no proximity that removed enough is far current
be considered. need
also will cylinder the in current instantaneous The
components; of two sum the of composed as treated be
component transient α and component state steady α
form of α the component takes transient the where
it section following the For current. eddy circulating
de- currents eddy the that mind in kept be should
of cur- component transient the only represent scribed
is time or point at any current total the and that rent
components. two sum of the the

(α) (β)
(C)
elliptical around an fields Fig. 11.17 Magnetic
cylinder.
linder. cy
lines of flux Penetrating (α)
into resolution showing (β) Detail
components
induced currents Circulating (χ)
flux of lines penetrating by
condi- state dc Under steady state conditions: Steady
wall of the cylinder along the the current density tions
if uniform resistance and, by the dc will be governed
wall thickness is assumed, it will be uniform. The cur-
rent in the cylinder will produce α magnetic field. Most
the cylinder, encircle lines will completely of the field
of the because but some, in Fig. 11.17(α), as shown
cylinder. through the will pass current density, uniform
the greater eccentricity of the cylinder, the The greater
passing through the number of lines of flux will be the
it.
line flux penetrating conditions: such One Transient
that defining The vector 11.17(β). Fig. in shown is
two into resolved be entry, of point at the may, line
surface, the to normal 0,,, one, components, vector
field If the surface. tangential to the Ot, another, and
circu- α induce will it established, is suddenly 0 line
which sheet conducting the in current or eddy, lating,
pro- will current eddy The peaietrate. to attempts it
of intensity the and of its own, field α magnetic duce
field magnetic that the such be will current eddy the
normal the cancel to required that exactly is produced
field. exterior the of component
11.17(χ), Fig. in shown If, as component: Circulating
pen- to attempt flux magnetic of of lines α number
eddy the cylinder, elliptical the of surface the etrate
pro- to combine flux of line by each produced currents
an ellip- In current. of circulating component α duce
of circulating be four regions will there cylinder tical
cylinder. of the sides the two of each on two current,
318