source
I
output
fair
'"
better (Y)
7 77-7
ρ..
() ,best
7 7concept .7
ρ-
hdirectly
bad
(δ)
Fig. 1ground
(α) Shield used as α conductor
Unbalanced two wire transmission (β)
(χ) Balanced τ ransmission and reception I
Boalned tura (χ) o acommon-mode
(δ) Loaded source
The single poiat ground concept is most applica-
ble in α situation such as that of Fig. 15.1(α) in which
α source feeds α load in α grounded enclosure. the If
source is physically and electrically ungrounded, any
noise voltage that might exist between the source and
V1, ground, or between the source end of the shield
and ground, V2, does not couple to the interior of the
shield ard is of no consequence.
most objection- shield are the on currents Noise
Fig. source, the for as return is used the shield able if
to directly added is voltage shield any since 15.1(α),
the signal from the source. Shield voltages are of lesser
concern if two-wire transmission, Fig. 15.1(β), is used,
since the shield voltages couple then only through the
capacitance between the shield and the signal conduc-
tors. Shield voltages are of least concern if true bal-
anced transmission is used, with the output taken from
α differential amplifier, Fig. 15.1(χ).
If the source is coupled to ground through an im-
pedance, Fig. 15.1(δ), the single point ground con-
cept is degraded, regardless of the type of transmis-
sion, since this does allow some of the voltage on the
source or the ungrounded end of the shield to couple
to conductors and the load. An impedance often un-
recognized is that provided by the stray capacitance

to ground of the source. With rapidly elec- ých"anig
tromagnetic fields the effects of such capacitance can
be of more importance than the performince of the
shield,
Multiple point grounding: an aircraft &ubjected In4
to the rapidly changing electromagnetic fields associ-
ated with lightning, interference freq-iencii. Can ex-
I α shield in) and 10 = MHz 30 than tend higher in (Λ
such condi- short". Under to be "noL would begin long
tions, shields grounded at only one end may not be ef-
fectice, and in some cases the shields may act as anten-
than even larger voltages make the surge and can nas
in shielded inot were conductors the if be would they
the first place. In such cases α multiple-point ground
is more appropriate. That concept aims to
ensure that noise currents do flow on shields, an aim
opposite to that of the giound sing4ε-point
concept.
Illustration of grounding effects: Some of these con-
nection effects have been illustrated by α series of tests
[15.1] made on α 5 μ long length of RG-58/U coax-.
ial cable. The cable was placed aejacent to α metal
plane and α magnetic field passed between the
cable and the ground plane to generate "interference".
During the tests, measurements could be made of the
voltage between the center conductor
and ground at each end of the cable or of the current
flowing in the shield of the cable. The magnetic field
was not α distributed field but was confined to the core
of α pulse injection transformer in the manner shown
in Chapter 18. The "interference" was thus magneti-
cally induced, the induced voltages being proportional
to the rate of change of magnetic flux. In actual prac-
tice interference can also be induced by electric field
coupling and with high frequencies one will never ex-
the to follow illustrations In the the other. ist without
apply would are illustrated that conclusions ultimate
fields. induced by electric to interference well equally
Unshielded conductor: Figs. 15.2 and 15.3 show con-
ditions on an unshielded conductor, or one in which
the shield is not used.
Balanced loads: In Fig. 15.2 the conductor has equal
(open) load impedances at the two ends. The changing
magnetic field induces α total voltage of 64 volts. How
that voltage divides depends on the impedances at the
end of the conductor. Since the impedances are equal,
half of the voltage appears at each end of the conductor
and the voltages are of opposite polarity, as would be
produced if the conductor were considered to have an
equivalent voltage generator at its center, Fig. 15.2(δ).
398