.have
their origin in the electric power field, to which and decay time, definitions of front and tail time being
most studies of breakdown strength of air gaps have given by industry standards [1.8]. The virtual front
been directed. For continuity, the terms will be re- time is taken to be 1.25 times the time between the
tained here, though they are not particularly apt in 30% and 90% points. For many purposes this virtual
relationship to aircraft. front time is α better characterization of the effects of
Surges having front times measured in α few mi- the impulse than the time to actual peak because it
croseconds and decay times measured in α few tens also defines the effective rate of rise of the impulse.
of microseconds are commonly called lightning surges It is defined by the 30% and 90% points rather than
since surges induced on power lines by lightning have the 10% and 90% used in electronic practice since the
such waveshapes. Other mechanisms can, of course, initial toe of the impulse is frequently distorted be-
also produce surges of such waveshapes. cause of the characteristics of the impulse generator.
Switching surges, as their name implies, arise on The distortion is of little importance as regards the
power lines through the operation of switches and cir- effect of the impulse, but can lead to controversy as to
cuit breakers. They are characterized by front times when the impulse reaches its 10% point. Decay time
measured in tens and hundreds of microseconds and is usually taken to be the time to decay to 50% of
decay times measured in hundreds and thousands of the peak aaplitude. It is seldom characterized by the
microseconds. Such times are also involved as α light- time to decay to 37% (ε-folding time), both because
towards or away from an aircraft, the 50% point is easier to determine and because the ning flash propagates
of impor- is seldom below 50% the impulse shape of to 5o relate voltages primarily frequency Power
characteristics. breakdown of in studies tance will and lines of transmission energization 60 Hz or
commonly used in the electrical in- in the following Α waveshape be given only passing consideration
ξ 1.46 α which for wave, 104 us 50 ξ 1.2 α is dustry = material.
sec- in being measured time ξ 10σ, 2.475 = 0 and mea- to surges lead may NEMP, effects, Nuclear
front 1.2 ps with α α wave yield constants The onds. the are beyond but they of nanoseconds, in tens sured
scope of the following material, as defined by industry standards, not the time to
for determining Procedures peak voltage. surge absolute made between the terms is also Α distinction 0
in §9.10.1. refer α, and E in Eq. 1.5 are given 0, impulse. Accepted practice is to use surge to and
0
to α voltage produced at random by nature and im-
pulse to refer to α voltage or current produced under
controlled conditions in α laboratory. For even more 1.0 -
0.9 precision the terms lightning impulse and switching
impulse are used.
1.5.2 Waveform Definitions 0.5 -
Voltages and currents tend to have different wave-
front virtual
shapes, both because of the nature of physical pro-
time
ceases and because of the intrinsic behavior of testing 0.
machinery.
time "tail (α) volt- high in used impulses Voltage impulses: Voltage
age testing and research most commonly have double
exponential waveshapes, as illustrated on Fig. 1.10(α).
They are described approximately by an equation of
suppressed tail
the form
=EF(ε-' ε-α"'). (1.6) - -
(β) Double exponential waveshapes are used because they
have the general characteristics of natural surges (fast
front times and slower decay times) and can be pro-
duced by basically simple (though expensive) capaci-
tor and resistor networks. Principles of such machines Fig. 1.10 Waveshapes for testing.
ame described in §6.8. Double exponential waveforms (α) Double exponential wave
are characterized by their peak amplitude, front time (β) Suppressed oscillatory wave
7