.
Chapter 3
AIRCRAFT LIGHTNING ATTACHMENT PHENOMENA
Introduction 3.1
This chapter will deal with the circumstances un- of interest since the beginning of powered flight be-
der which aircraft are struck by lightning and the cause lightning and other thunderstorm effects, such as
question of whether aircraft can trigger lightning or turbulence and icing, are to be avoided if possible. To
whether they just happen to be in the path of a natu- learn about these conditions, various lightning strike
rally occurring flash. It also deals with how the light- incident reporting projects have been implemented.
ning flash interacts with the aircraft surfaces and de- Beginning in 1938, the Subcommittee on Meteorolog-
fines the lightning strike zones within which these sur- ical Problems of the National Advisory Committee
faces fall. Methods for locating the zones on specific for Aeronautics (NACA) prepared and distributed a
aircraft are discussed in Chapter 5. sixteen page questionnaire to airlines and the Armed
Statistics on lightning strikes reported by aircraft Forces [3.1]. Pilots filled out these questionnaires after
pilots seem to indicate that no aircraft is likely to re- each lightning strike incident and forwarded them to
ceive more than one or two lightning strikes in a year, the NACA subcommittee for analysis. The question-
but that some types of aircraft receive more strikes naire was evidently too long for widespread use, how-
than others. Compared with exposure to other haz- ever, and was discontinued by 1950. Nevertheless, the
ards, such as hail, birds and turbulence, which are also program provided important data for the first time on
encountered during flight, the exposure of aircraft to the meteorological conditions prevailing when strikes
lightning strikes seems relatively infrequent. Because occurred and the resulting effects on the aircraft.
O
of this, incorporation of lightning protective measures Following that, programs were conducted by the
in the designs of some aircraft has been considered, by Lightning and Transients Research Institute (LTRI)
some, unnecessary. The question also arises: "If light- [3.2], the FAA [3.3] and Plumer and Hourihan of Gen-
ning strikes do in fact occur infrequently, can they be eral Electric, together with five US commercial air-
avoided altogether?" Because some types of aircraft lines [3.4]. This latter project is known as the Airlines
seem to experience more than their "fair share" of Lightning Strike Reporting Project. Anderson and
lightning strikes, a related question also arises: "Why Kroninger of South Africa [3.5], Perry of the British
are some aircraft (seemingly) more susceptible than Civil Aviation Authority [3.6], and Trunov of the
others?" USSR National Research Institute for Civil Aviation
To answer these questions a considerable amount [3.7] have also conducted studies. More recent data
of research into the effects of such factors as aircraft from the Airlines Lightning Strike Reporting Project
size, engine exhaust, and microwave radar emissions has been reported by Rascb et al of FAA and Lightning
on lightning strike formation have been undertaken Technologies Inc. [3.8;.
over the years. Much of this research has been aimed Strike incidence data, based largely on turbojet or
at answering the question of whether or not an air- turboprop aircraft, is usually summarized according to
craft can in fact somehow produce its own lightning the following categories:
strike, or if it can trigger an impending flash from a
1. Altitude. are incon- findings of the some cloud. While nearby
clusive, others have provided definite answers to some 2. Flight path; that is, climbing, level flight, or de-
of these questions. In this chapter we summarize what scent.
has been learned about the aircraft's influence on light- 3. Meteorological conditions.
ning strike occurrence and dispel some other miscon-
ceptions about this phenomenon. We also examine 4. Outside air temperature
how other factors, such as flight and weather condi-
tions, affect lightning strikes and conclude with why it 5. Lightning strike effects on the aircraft
is important that lightning protection be incorporated Altitude, flight path, meteorological conditions,
into all new aircraft designs. and air temperature are topics discussed in this chap-
The atmospheric and flight conditions prevailing ter. Lightning strike effects on aircraft will be dis-
when aircraft have been struck by lightning have been cussed in the succeeding chapter.
41