and employing comparatively few fasteners. This
includes small two place recreational and utility
aircraft.
Primary S. structure utilizing adhesive bonds
place of rivets or fasteners.
Secondary structures: Secondary structures, such
wing tips, tail cones, wheel well doors and flight control
surfaces often do not have enough fasteners to transfer
lightning currents without sigificant damage to the
fasteners and surrounding structural material. Some-
times this damage is due to magnetic forces and other
effects, in addition to or besides arcing at the fasteners,
In many cases this damage does not present a major
hazard and nothing need be done to protect against
Repairs can be made if the aircraft is actually struck
by a lightning flash.
An example of such damage is illustrated in Fig.
6.18, which shows the aluminum vertical fin and cap
of a small, aircraft after an in-flight lightning strike de-
scribed by the pilots as "very loud." The aluminum
cap was joined to the fin with 16 removable fasten-
ers. Intense arcing is evidenced by the dark soot. Arc
pressure and magnetic forces deformed the surround-
ing structure. The damage is typical of what might be
expected in this Zone 1B location, though the actual
magnitude of the flash is of course unknown,
Small Aircraft: Some areas where lightning currents
might be expected to flow through a small number
fasteners are shown in Fig. 6.19.
Fig. 6.17 Riveted joint

Adhesive bonds: Structural adhesives are being used
more frequently to augment or replace rivets in struc-
tural joints. Such adhesives reduce manufacturing
costs and leaks in fuel tanks, and provide more uni-
in form distribution of mechanical loads. Nearly all of
these adhesives, however, are electrical insulators and
aIs by virtue of theit uniform application along joints, ef-
fectively insulate one part from another. This allows
lightning and other electrical currents to spark through
the adhesive at random locations inside or alongside a
joint.
These situations are-illustrated in Fig. 6.20. The
sparking illustrated will occur anywhere that the ad-
hesie is in a lightning current path, unless alterna,
it. tive paths are available through nearby fasteners in
the same joint or parallel structural elements. If suffi-
ciently intense, the expanding gasses from the sparks
may damage or destroy the bond. Also, sparks at the
bond edges may ignite fuel vapors if any are present.
In order to ensure uniform coating, some adhe-
sives are carried by thin fberglass cloths, rather than
being brushed or sprayed on the parts to be joined.
The carrier cloth forces a minimum separation of about
mm (0.005 0.1 in) between the parts, virtually guaran-
teeing that no electrical contact will exist between the
bonded parts. Other adhesives are brushed or flowed
on without carriers, but the adhesive layer itself is
thick enough, 0.05 to 0.1 mm (0.002 - 0.005 in) to
act as an insulator.
of
that carrded 200 kA.
132