magnitude about the was made specification No
the short circuit current. Martzloff or waveshape of
and Howell show a test circuit cvpable of injecting the
where, since the output transient onto 120 V ac lines
the impedance of the circuit is basicaJly 150 resistive,
be about the short circuit current would shape of the
voltage, of the open circuit same as that
been have circuit test this and waveform This
in re- example is fields. One in some accepted widely
[16.7]. ground fault interrupters to lation
NEMP: Test practices for simulation of NEMP effects
were being developed about the time the TCL phi-
losophy was evolving. Particularly valuable was the
practice of injecting transients into conductors using
transformer coupling. The waveshapes in use were
most commonly oscillatory with frequencies of several
MHz.
NASA Space Shuttle: The present TCL philosophy
was first proposed in [16.8] and later presented in
(16.9].
At one stage in the development of the Space
. there was an allowance Shuttle Criteria Document,
made for two basically unidirectional transient test
waves. While those test waves had some deficiencies
and have been largely superseded, discussion of them
appropriate, since that discussion will illustrate is still
some of the problems inher7ent in waveform specifica-
tions.
Wavoshapes for aperture effects: The first of these
specifications dealt with a transient rising to crest in
2 and decaying to zero in 100 Ms. The intent of this pa
test wave was to duplicate in some manner the effects
produced by magnetic flux leaking through apertures.
The specification gave only straight line represen-
tations of the waves, it being understood that actual
test waves would have more complex waveshapes. Un-
fortunately, some groups misunderstood the intent of
the specification and attempted to design, at great
expense, pulse generators that produced triangular
waves.
pernitted waveforms on specification The Shuttle
transformer- of characteristic feature a a backswing,
coupled surges. The backswing amplitude was re-
quired to be less than 25% of the initial amplitude, but
the duration of the backswing was left uncontrolled,
to be interpreted not intended waveform was The test
as reqitiring a backswing. An overdamped wave was
satisfactory. perfectly
would there used, was waveform an overdanped If
be no .learly defined time to zero. In such cases the
decay time was intended to be taken as one-half the
indicated value (50 ps instead of 100 and mea- ps)
429

to wave had decayed which the the time at sured to
The waveform was thus 50% of its initial amplitude.
test waveform derived similar to the standard ANSI
for tests on high-voltage apparatus. The front time of
2 reflected the 2 front time of the basic lightning ps aus
speci- themselves were current. The transients design
and 10 50 V open circuit amplitudes of fled as having
circuit. short A
a long-duration was for specification The second
mag- by effects produced the representing transient
netic flux diffusing through the walls of cavities. Such
flux would have rise and decay times much longer than
those of the lightning current. The specification called
for a short circuit current of A and 5 an open circuit
voltage of 0.5 V, both taking 300 to reach crest and ps
another 300 for decay to zero. The specification of ps
equal times to crest and from crest back to zero is in-
compatible with the response of real physical elements.
In practice, any waveform with a rise time of 300 ps
would have a decay time longer than 600 ps.
One common deficiency of the above specification
was that it did not clearly distinguish between tran-
sient voltages and transient currents, and did not sat-
isfactorily account for the effects of transient source
impedance. Both the short circuit current and open
circuit voltage had the same waveshape. In practice
the open circuit voltage would be of a duration shorter
than that of the short circuit current.
Original TCL proposals: In the paper in which the
concept of transient control levels was first presented
[16.10], Fisher and Martzloff proposed a test wave that
was primarily unidirectional. The open circuit voltage
was characterized by a fast rise to crest and then a de-
cay to zero in 5 or greater. To allow for transformer pa,
coupling of the transient, a backswing was allowed af-
ter the transient had decayed to zero. The character
of the backswing was not specified-only that its ampli-
tude should be less than 50% of the initial amplitude.
The rationale behind this voltage waveform con-
cept included the following aspects:
to the proportional measure in some be It should 1.
a by produced field magnetic the of derivative
current. lightning
2. The duration of the transient should be long
enough that possible failures of semiconductors
would not be strongly affected by the waveshape
dura- transients of since, with transient, of the
tion shorter than about a microsecond, the failure
by affected strongly of semiconductors are levels
waveshape.
3. The duration of the transient should be roughly
comparable to the (then existing) duration of
clock cycles in digital equipment.