Transfer Functions 10.8.3
In the examples that follow, the shape of the light-
ning current injected into the aircraft was determined
by using the finite difference code to see what current
was necessary to produce α calculated field matching
one of the fields measured on the aircraft. The injected
current was then used to calculate the responses at the
other points at which measurements had been made.
to the mea- fields were then compared The calculated
degree of correspondence. sured fields to see the
Determining the appropriate shape of the light-
ning current involves the use of transfer functions.
The transfer function, Τ.F., is α relationship in the
frequency domain between α source function and α re-
sponse function,
.C(Output) - ξ C(Input) Τ.F.
Laplace transform (10.51) £C
and its use requires the system under study to be lin-
ear. This requirement is satisfied by α linear finite
difference code, but is, of course, not satisfied in α real
interaction between an aircraft and α lightning flash
where the impedance of the lightning flash changes
with time and with current. The justification for using
transfer functions is that the nonlinearity in the real
situation is mostly confined to the lightning channel
itself. The responses of the aircraft are usually linear
functions of the lightning current that flows onto the
aircraft, at least to within the accuracy with which
lightning interaction calculations can be made.
"Transfer functions are determined by taking the
Fourier transforms of the current source and the re-
sponse waveforms: σ) R()
= (10.52) Τ(ω) R-ω'
Here is the transfer function in the frequency Τ(ω)
domain, is the transform of the response wave- R(ω)
form, and is the Fourier transform of the current 1(ω)
source waveform. Α transfer function can be calcu-
lated (for given set of lightning channels) by assuming
α current waveshape (time domain), making the cal-
culations to determine the time domain response at
α particular point and performing the transforms and
calculations of Eq. 10.52. For the F-106 study the
responses calculated were the rates of change of elec-
tric field at the locations where electric field sensors
(Δ-dot sensors) were located on the aircraft. Several
transfer functions were calculated, one for each loca-
tion where there was α sensor of the electric field, all,
of course, for the same geometry of the lightning flash.
Because the model is linear the transfer functions are
independent of the characteristics of the source.

0
Current field waveshape: the from One way transfer
functions can be used is to calculate for each of the
points where measurements were made the waveshape
of the current that would have produced that response.
If the lightning channels assumed for the calculations
were those followed by the actual lightning flash, and
if all of the responses of the aircraft upon which the
calculated transfer functions were based were correct,
then all of the calculated lightning current waveshapes
the calculations the same. If not, then would be
performance was until satisfactory could be repeated
reached.
For this program α slightly different approach was
used. The transfer function calculated for one point on
the aircraft, and the response measured at that point,
were used to calculate the lightning current flowing
along the lightning channel assumed for the calcula-
tions. Then the responses calculated at all the mea-
surement points were compared to the responses mea-
sured at those points. The degree to which the re-
sponses agree is α measure of the validity of the mod-
eling technique.
Results of Calculations 10.8.4
Two examples of calculations based on measure-
ments made during actual lightning strikes will be 0
given. In each, the field waveshape measured at one
location was used to calculate the most probable wave-
shape of the lightning current. That current was then
used to calculate the field waveshape at other points.
Measured and calculated field waveshapes were then
compared.
F-106Β: Results from the model for the F-106Β are
presented in Fig. 10.27. They pertain to α trig-
gered lightning flash attaching to the nose with an exit
streamer coming from the tip of the vertical stabilizer.
The transfer function and measured waveshape used to
derive the waveshape of the current were derived for
the longitudinal magnetic field sensor (Β-dot) located
atop the fuselage, the waveshape at that sensor being
shown on Fig. 10.27(α). The agreement between cal-
culated and measured results only indicates that there
were no numerical errors in the calculations.
Responses measured and calculated for the other
points are shown in Figs. 10.27(β) - 10.27(ε). The
largest disagreement between measured and calculated
responses is that for the tail, Fig. 10.27(ε). After the
calculations were done, it was discovered that the ac-
tual location of the sensor on the tail was considerably
different from the location assumed for the model; in
fact the calculations and measurements pertain to two
different locations.
292