the principle, In objects: dimensional Three
be solved also may objects three-dimensional around
Eq. 10.19 to include by extending numerically
Α α central point. points on α cube surrounding
object not tion of the field around three-dimensional α
amounts large requires symmetry rotational involving
calcula- of computer storage and running time if the
in all are to define the field satisfactorily tions
dimensions.
of Fields Plotting Hand 10.5.2
be deter- may also any geometry fields around The
process in which cut-and-try by α mined graphically
the lines are drawn on flow lines and equipotential
subdivision always ometry and adjusted until repeated
flow and equipotential small squares and the yields
angles. Cut-and- at all points at right lines intersect
an imperfect is 10.11 Fig. of which plotting, field try
and liberal use example, may with care, patience,
α field pattern of α soft pencil and eraser yield
desired accuracy.
! "•
Fig. 10.11 Cut-and-try field plotting.
Wire Filaments Calculation Using 10.5.3
density, current to determining approach Another
on the premise that in Fig. 10.12, is based shown
as geometry can be represented two-dimensional
10.6]. If the current array of parallel wires [10.5,
density along is known, the average current each wire
will be the average surface defined by any two wires the
the spacing divided by on the two wires the current of
wires. the between
that so length, infinite of all are wires the If
connected all are and considered, be need effects end
current which in manner the ends, their at together
with calculated be may wires the among divides
elements the program computer simple α of aid
below. which are discussed equations of
Inductances: and mutual Let the location Self
rectangular coor- be defined in terms of the the wires

the conductors radius of let the and yi, xi and dinates field
each wire of length unit per The self-inductance be rl.
eight is:
solu-
(10.21) 2 ξ IO-TlnI-- = Λ
LrlJ
as the In this equation R is defined henries per meter.
or from the group of con- distance from the conductor, three
path. The numerical ductors, to an arbitrary return
be calculated to distribution current the of accuracy
to assigned value the upon critically not depend does
20 times of 10 to the order be of it should R, but
being mod- the structure of dimension the greatest
will be α any two conductors, ij, there ge- eled. Between
mutual inductance
In (10.22) 2 Ξ = 10-7 [ R MJ
LriJ
The spacing between conductors, of henries per meter.
from the coordinates of the any rij, can be determined
conductors.
(o •)ε. €om~cm'
,/ .'
1\/
of wires. array as an defined Α structure 10.12 Fig.
(α) The array α
location (β) Coordinates defining an
of the return path (χ) Definition in
for current
conductors, of group If α of current: In terms Voltage
consid- is 10.13, Fig. in as current, α carrying each no
and of inductances mutual and self- if the ered, and
across voltages the are known, conductor each between
an- for be, will conductor each of self-inductance the the
follows: as 1, ω frequency gular and =
fnin Μ, ι Λ, of + Μ3is ι V = .... - - 2 2 1 3 -•
(10.23)
282