CONDUCTOR UNGIR
TEST
primary. on turns more of Effect 18.29 Fig.
current - More short circuit
open circuit voltage - Less
of the natural in the frequency - Α decrease
cable under test oscillatory mode of the
the current pulse rise time of - Α longer
Measurements 18.5
frequencies, effects testing involves high Indirect
Α few notes on mea- and high current. high voltage
surement techniques follow. Additional notes on mesa-
techniques are given in [18.41. surement
Oscioscopes: should have Measuring oscilloscopes
or order of 100 MHz bandwidth, on the sufficient
in- be well shielded against They should also greater.
and the circuit un- the surge generaton. terference from
requires that they be housed der test. Frequently this
as far from the and physically in shielding enclosure α
dis- were previously as possible. Techniques test setup
§13.4.3 and Fig. 13.20. cussed in
impedance volt- probes: Conventional high Voltage
1000 voltages of about are limited to input age probes
to pickup of noise volts and are somewhat susceptible
of the circuits under test voltages. Since impedances
can be made voltage probes generally low, suitable are
Wire as sketched in Fig. 18.30. from carbon resistors,
because of excessive be avoided wound resistors should
thousands of of several inductance. Total resistances
resis- among several distributed ohms are satisfactory,
watt carbon resis- on individual 1/2 tors, with voltage
power volts. Instantaneous tors limited to about 1000
the average may be high, but in the resistors dissipated
power is low.
of cur- Most measurements Current transformers:
Transform- transformers. made using current rent are
have wide band- shielded and that ers that are well
available, but transformers are commercially widths
can also be cus- for many purposes sufficiently suitable
in cores, as shown on toroidal magnetic tom wound
should be uni- The secondary winding Fig. 18.31.
and the conductor upon arornd the core formly wound
480

the near kept should be are made measurements which
also be made Transformers can center of the core.
insertion onto con- simplify These cores. split using
response. Α have poorer low frequency ductors, but
of the response affecting discussion of the factors good
appears in [18.51. transformers current
Conductor under
test
aarbon resistors
cable ohm 50
()
V
R
-= R +1
50
(β)
for measurement 18.30 Resistive divider Fig.
voltage. of
ratio (α) Circuit
(β) Evaluation of
R-ρ@ Nurn
ε.
O
I- I
transformer. Fig. 18.31 Current
α circuit of frequency response: An equivalent Low
18.32(α). Pri- is shown in Fig. current transformer
pro- voltage in the windings current induces α mary
Because of the current. to the derivative portional
windings the Λ, of the transformer of the inductance,
resistor, R, is initially current applied to the viewing
thus to of the voltage and to the integral proportional
however prevents current. The resistance, the input
is that the output and the result perfect integration
the true wAveshape of departs from voltage gradually