circuits case. If internal ground and the equipment
case, then to the connected fact, permanently are, in
applicable. is not the configuration
internal
surgs
generator -- t
""V
st r
system. on an ungrounded injection Pin 18.34 Fig.
test procedure is: The
ground local to the the EUT of the case 1. Ground
system.
to other EUT the connecting cables all Remove 2.
power supplying those possibly except equipment,
to the unit.
and power leads, input the Questions regarding
spe- powered, deserve should be EUT the whether
power the system of If the voltage cial attention.
applied voltage, than about 10% of the is greater
is best solid state devices, it or if the unit includes
since the with the EUT powered to make tests
that test can change the way power connections
the EUT. A full discussion current distributes in
the scope of this chapter. is, however, beyond
generator and of the surge Adjust the power level 3.
voltage is of the correct verify that open circuit
set, the power and waveshape. Once magnitude
all should remain fixed for level of the generator
at that nominal level, tests
correct source has the 4. Verify that the generator
impedance.
to the output may be done by connecting This
imped- to the specified generator a resistor equal
load that the voltage under ance and observing
It may also half the open circuit voltage. drops to
that the output and observing done by shorting be
current flows, specified short circuit the
482

or relays to connect close switches 5. If applicable,
of the con- to the pins components circuit internal
relays wiring across Temporary under test. nector
switches is allowable. and
6. Apply the specified surge to each pin, one pin at
a time.
some connections between pins may make Internal
all pins to- but connecting redundant, of the tests
all pins simul- applying the surge to gether and
permissible, except for generally taneously is not
very simple circuits.
7. Monitor and record applied voltage and current.
of in- small unless breakdown Current should be
be not should voltage and takes place sulation
voltage. open circuit the from different greatly
fit- to circuits apply not does observation This
These are devices or filters. ted with protective
§18.5.3. in discussed
the ini- of be made records should Permanent
per- making but and waveshape, magnitude tial
ap- every and each document to records manent
unless be superfluous, probably would plied pulse
is observed. breakdown
the energize has been completed, the test After 8.
is normal operation whether observe equipment,
any abnormalities. record if not, and,
and These should polarity of surges: applied Number
practice is still discussed in a test plan, but testing be
of opinion there is not yet a consensus evolving and
to best prac- laboratories and organizations as among
should made that each pin Suggestions have been tice.
of the spec- of each polarity for each receive 10 pulses
ified test waves.
that the taken in specifications Care should be
of two unwieldy. The product test does not become
Y pins and Z waveforms X pulses per pin, polarities,
can become excessive.
This type of test is most com- stress applied: of Type
common mode voltages and done by applying monly
components and insulation between primarily stresses
current, r in the in Fig. 18.34. Some case, V as shown
circuit components, may flow through internal figure,
direct metal small because there is no but it will be
side of the generator. connection to the return