τ"shielding 00
Α
ε;'0. 6;
" " -electric
Is
upon wave incident 11.1 Α plane Fig.
surface, α shielding
The penetration of fields to the interior is of-
ten discussed in terms of "shielding effectiveness", but
there are two different ways that the external electro-
magnetic fields may be visualized. They can give rise
to two very different measures of the "shielding effec-
tiveness" of α structure.
11.2.1 Impinging Electromagnetic Field
In the most common treatment of electromagnetic
shielding the field at the surface, region (β) above,
is taken to be produced by some external source in
region (α) that causes α field to propagate in α for-
the incident When ward direction toward the surface.
and reflected partially is it surface the at arrives field
the reflected wave propagates back away from the sur-
face. The sum of the incident and reflected waves,
with proper regard for polarity, is what appears at the
surface. If the sheet were α perfect conductor, the po-
incident and reflected waves would be larities of the
such that the resultant magnetic field would be tan-
gential to the surface and the resultant electric field
would be normal to the surface.
de- field would resultant of the magnitude The
its ori- sheet and of the conducting the shape pend on
flat con- α With wave. incoming the toward entation.
the to broadside oriented and extent of infinite ductor
incoming wave, the tangential magnetic field would be
double that of the incoming field and the electric field
would become zero. For other angler of incidence the
magnetic field would be less than double and α radial
electric field would be developed. For curved surfaces
the fields that develop at the surface might be several
times the magnitude of the incoming field,

Shielding effectiveness: For an impinging field, the.
effectiveness" is usually taken to be the ratio
of the external impinging magnetic field to the internal
expressed as field, magnetic
SE 201og [ dB. (11.1) =
An effectiveness of shielding against electric fields
could similarly be defined, though usually shielding
against electric fields is an easier task than shielding
against magnetic fields. The impinging magnetic or
field is that which would exist in the absence
of the sheet, and should not be confused with that
which appears at the surface of the sheet.
The shielding effectiveness can be taken to have
three components; one due to reflection at the surface,
sheet field through the of the one due to transmission
fields build up on the one due to the way that the and
internal volume. As defined in Eq. 11.1, the "shielding
effectiveness" is largely determined by how well the
surface reflects the incident electromagnetic field.
11.2.2 Impinging Current
In many lightning interaction problems, however,
the magnetic field at the surface is the result of in-
jecting current into α structure and can be determined
directly from the current density. The shielding effec-
tiveness is best defined in terms of the magnetic field
that appears at the surface.
FH--
(11.2) SE dB. = 20log[HiJ
This definition of shielding effectiveness treats
only how the fields propagate through the sheet and
how they couple to the interior volume. There will
be an external field produced by the current, but any
be of incident and reflected waves would discussion
α roundabout way of determining the external field.
Since the current is the independent variable which
produces the external field there is no "surface reflec-
effectiveness. the shielding in to include tion factor"
has α effectiveness" the "shielding is that The result
pro- is the current where case in the than value lower
field. impinging an by duced
11.3 Diffusion Effects
The way that diffusion influences voltage on elec-
trical circuits will first be illustrated for circular cylin-
ders; partly because the effects are easiest to analyze
and partly because cylindrical geometries are often en-
countered in lightning interaction problems.
308