of such α components will be circulating current These
edges δ&nsity at the the current nature as to increase
center. They it along the and to reduce of the cylinder
also cancel any penetrating magnetic field, forcing the
field around the cylinder to be entirely tangential to
the surface, at least initially,
From the viewpoint of component currents, the
circulating currents produce an internal magnetic field
that initially has the same pattern as that produced
so as to polarity, opposite but of current, dc by the
initially reduce the internal magnetic field to zero.
Transition to conditions: DC The eddy currents can-
not exist forever, since energy will be lost as the cur-
rents circulate through the resistance of the metal
sheet. Accordingly, the .current density at. all points
becoming uniformly eventually time, vary with will
distributed in structures having uniform thickness and
made of uniform resistivity materials. Fig. 11.18
shows the manner in which the current density will
vary, As the circulating current shown in Fig. 11.18(χ)
decays to zero, the current at the edge will decay
from its initial high value to the final resistively deter-
mined value, and the current at the center will increase
.current from its initially low value. The current densities will
change according to an essentially exponential pattern,
though the transient increase in surface resistance pro-
duced by diffusion effects will prevent the circulating
from following α true exponential decay.
.... .-- - --
-- ,-_)\
-...-
(.-
30' (β) Ste rsT
, .. π. δ shin #Owlsface, Will:
Fo.
10 0 le tim J ι,. 1.
Fig. 11.18 Variation of current density with time.
(α) Current components defined
(β) Edge and center currents
(χ) Circulating currents

the approx- One expression giving constant: Time
time constant of the redistribution imate magnitude
[11.5] is: the literature appeared in that has
uAa
.ρ = (1135)
where
Α = enclosed area of structure
structure. θ. around ι1istance peripheral Π =
The thickness of the wall, α, is assumed to be very
small compared to other dimensions. For α rectangular
box of sides height η and width δ, Eg. 11.36 becomes
'ρ u da(. φ
2 ( π(η+dY
These equations define the approximate redistribution
times, but the actual time constants will depend on the
geometry and will be somewhat different for different
portions of α structure.
For an elliptical cylinder made from aluminum of
thickness 0.0381 cm, having α major axis of 47 cm, α
minor axis of 9.4 cm, and α perimeter of 98.7 cm (es-
sentially α flattened version of the circular cylinder dis-
cussed in §11.2) the redistribution time constant pre-
dicted by Eq. 11.35 would be 745 ps. As will always be
the case, the redistribution time constant will be mudc
longer than the pulse penetration time constant.
11.4.2 Eddy Currents and the Internal
Magnetic Field
As the circulating component of current dies out
and the external lines of flux penetrate the walls of
the cylinders, there will be set up an internal mag-
netic field oriented as shown in Fig. 11.19. In its
which the internal field builds latter stages the rate at
up will be dependent upon the rate at which the ex-
ternally induced circulating currents die away, with α
time constant about equal to the redistribution time
constant.
The early time buildup of the magnetic field will
depend on the rate at which the eddy currents build
build currents The eddy surface. along the inner up
"up in response to the electric field on the inner sur-
but are also governed by the inductance of the
path through which they circulate, according to the
formula: elementary
(11.37) Edt. :1
Since the internal surface voltages are retarded by
the diffusion effect, it follows that the internal circu-
lating currents, and hence the internal magnetic field,
will build up even more slowly.
319