films have not promoted punc- electric shocks. These center ply of acrylic or polycar- 1. Utilize α tough
of polycarbonate resins. ture of canopies fabricated materials are usually resiliant bonate resin. These
impact damage. and tolerant of shock wave or
struc- require that windshield Some specifications
external surface of α 2 kg (4 lb) tures be able to survive the impact
glass have some- bird at 200 knots. Such windshields
wires fine -7 of Zone the effects capable of tolerating been times
plastic ply. outer the punctures through 1Α glass (α)
Α-Α View inter- at the tearing from result can failure Since
surface .external - well as frame, the laminate and the between face Β ι ii π Plastic laminate itself, this part of as by puncture of the
metal film part
plastic be considered from α light- the design must also
_......
plastic that suc- (β) protection standpoint. Approaches ning
Α-Α View require- strike bird reasonable tolerate cessfully
to meet lightning require- ments are also likely
ments.
windshields. heated Fig. 6.38 Electrically
(α) Fine wires ir, glass/acrylic sandwich of fine α metal film heating element instead 2. Utilize
acrylic or polycarbonate (β) Metal film in films are less conducive to embedded wires. The
sandwich outer ply. puncture of the
on power distri- Employ surge suppression devices 3.
View electrical wind- circuits or busses feeding bution
Α-Α shield de-ice systems.
outer glass be rated to limit surge volt- Such devices should
shatters ply (TCL), level control transient the system to Pges
in Chapter 5, while safely conduct- defined as 0
ground. Fig. substantial currents to airframe ing 0
ply I acrylic • < surge suppressors should be 6.40 shows where "
" ruptures de- α on surge suppression installed. Information '0
0 Metal oxide varistor (α) vices is given in Chapter 17.
(MOV) type devices have proven capable of con- WOW heater wires O O
0 00 vaporize .α for be used should 9.-- and amperes 000 50 ducting
heater power feed and protection of windshield
control circuits. us
glass nner q σ windows other and canopies windshields, Since 4. π.α
designs candidate items, critical flight usually am
I
true of wind- be tested. This is especially should
never, high bases relating to shields since data
do not ex- light weight laminate designs strength,
in methods are described ist. Appropriate test
§8.8.
bus to wires are applicable methods protection foregoing The
system as well as windows, side and canopies type bubble to
(β) to frontal windshields, though windshields represent
related problem. the most likely lightning
"J are and elements de-ice employ Canopies rarely
of polycarbonate resins which fabricated most often .from
to electrically heated of Fig. 6.39 Lightning damage strengths. This is also true have very high dielectric
on windshield. metal films are deposited side windows. Sometimes
Shock wave damage to laminate the pilot (α) type canopies to shield the interior of bubble
(β) Surge current into power system otherwise cause strong electric fields that would
147