O•
Chapter 2
THE LIGHTNING
2.1 Introduction
formation originates with the The lightning flash
of electrical charge in the air or, more commonly,
of lightning common producer clouds. The most
the cumulonimbus thundercloud. Lightning, however,
can also occur during sandstorms, snowstorms,
in the clouds over erupting volcanos. Lightning has
even been reported to occur in clear air, though
phenomenon is rare and is possibly a result of light-
ning originating in conventional clouds beyond the
servers' field of vision. Lightning originating in sand-
storms and volcanic eruptions is not of serious concern
to aircraft, but lightning associated with snowstorms
occurs often enough to present a problem, not because
its nature is different from lightning associated
thunderstorms, but because it is apt to occur when
is unexpected. Pilots' reports on aircraft often state
that they were struck "out of the blue"; that is,
der conditions where a lightning stroke would not
expected. The circumstances of such reports are
always known, but they do suggest that there is
more to learn about the mechanism of the lightning
flash.
The most common types of lightning are those
volving the cloud and ground, called cloud-to-ground
lightning, and lightning between charge centers within
a cloud, called intracloud lightning. This latter
sometimes erroneously called intercloud or cloud-to-
cloud lightning. True cloud-to-cloud lightning
tween isolated cloud centers is possible; however, what
appears to be cloud-to-cloud lightning is often a spec-
tacular manifestation of intracloud discharges. While
aircraft may be involved with any of the three types
of lightning, cloud-to-ground and intracloud lightning
flashes are the most common types.
This chapter is mostly concerned with lightning
flashes to ground and not with intracloud flashes
flashes to aircraft. There are several reasons for
emphasis, the major one being that most research
lightning has centered on cloud-to-ground lightning
and most of our understanding of lightning comes from
study of cloud-to-ground lightning. There have been
several studies in recent years involving aircraft flown
into storms in order to better study intracloud light-
ning. These studies have shed considerable light
the nature of intracloud lightning, and have shown

ENVIRONMENT
The trig- a lightning flash. aircraft can trigger that
lightning flashes gering mechanism and the nature of
Chapter 3. are discussed in by aircraft is triggered
Despite its importance to aircraft operation, there
and is simply much less information on the characteris-
tics of intracloud lightning than on those of cloud-to-
this ground lightning. Intracloud lightning, unlike cloud-
to-ground lightning, is largely hidden from direct ob-
ob- servation and so is much more difficult to study. Con-
ducting research on the characteristics of lightning is
often a labor of love requiring both both extensive ap-
paratus and extreme patience. Observing lightning
from a fixed ground station is much easier and cheaper
with than observing lightning from a moving aircraft. Also,
it most of the funding for research on lightning has come,
directly or indirectly, from those who are concerned
un- with the effects of lightning on electric power trans-
be mission and distribution lines, which are affected only
not by cloud-to-ground strokes.
still Cloud-to-ground strokes, though, are important
for aircraft since aircraft are struck by cloud-to-
ground lightning and there is considerable evidence
in- that cloud-to-ground flashes are more severe than in-
tracloud flashes. Most of the test specifications and
test practices relating to aircraft and lightning have
is been derived, directly or indirectly, from studies of
cloud to ground lightning. Finally, the ground facil-
be- ities to support aircraft are only exposed to cloud-to-
ground lightning. This handbook does not specifically
deal with ground support facilities, but they obviously
must be protected from lightning in order to fill their
support role for flying aircraft.
To introduce the terms that will be discussed in
the following sections consider a photograph of a typi-
or cal cloud-to-ground lightnig flash taken on a camera
this with a continuously moving film, Fig. 2 1(a), a Boys
on camera as discussed in §1.5.4. The image on the film
would appear as shown on Fig. 2.1(b) and the current
measured at ground level would appear as shown in
Fig. 2.1(c). A leader starts at the cloud and works
its way in steps toward the ground. When it nears
ground an upward streamer forms upwards toward the
on descending leader. These are not very luminous and
can seldom be seen by the naked eye.
19