break is to problem solution to this Another
an electri- inserting by fuel tank the to path current
cally non-conductive section of tubing between points
(a) and (b) in Fig. 7.10. This would force all of
the pos- and thus eliminate (a) at point to exit current
interface. tank skin at the fuel sparking sibility of
fuel jettison whole the an alternative, As
non-conductive of a electrically be fabricated could
a lightning it as which would eliminate material
require- course, other Of point altogether. tachment
non-flammability, crash-worthiness and such as ments
non-conductive by those satisfied durability must be
materials.
Fuel in Spots Hot and Through Burn 7.5
Skins Tank
fuel is in which skins are those tank Integral
the aircraft. skin of the outside contact with direct
in the wings found are commonly this type Tanks of
aircraft, aviation some general and of transport
aircraft. fighter of modern and fuselages wings in the
on pylons carried the type of tanks fuel External
type. the integral also of are wing tips
direct or swept located in skins are tank If integral
must be taken measures zones, attachment lightning
through not melt flash does a lightning ensure that
to ignite hot enough inside surface skin or get the
include account taken into must be Factors that fuel.
how long skin and metal thickness of the and type the
spot. a particular dwell at flash might lightning a
use, a light- in common skins the aluminum For
getting the skin before melt through ning arc will
vapor. to ignite the fuel enough surface hot inside
 0 C), 500 (-- of aluminum temperature melting The
of most hydro- temperature the ignition lower than
[7.29], Crouch by Experiments fuel vapors. carbon
that fuels, showed propane, pentane, and JP-4 using
skin temperature until the not occur would ignitions
an aluminum fuels within Thus, 900*C. reached
were a hole unless ignited not be would tank tegral
fuel va- the and skin the through completely burned
of temperature high extremely the to por exposed
000*C. 30 upwards of arc, lightning
of temperature melting the other hand, the On
1400*C. is steel stainless of that and is 1700*C tanium
temper- ignition fuei the than these are higher of Both
to lightning resistant is more. a skin such While ature.
completely be melted to not need it does melt through,
to occur. ignition for through
erode to required current lightning of amount The
been long has skins aircraft metal in holes or melt
much how estimating of purpose for the first, interest,
damage in the involved was current actually lightning
deter- for second, and flight, in aircraft by sustained

to pre- required thickness skin the minimum mining the
skin. tank fuel integral of an melt-through vent
Review of Basic Studies the 7.5.1
burned might be of holes that on the size Research
previ- was thickness of various metal skins through pipe
size of the 6. Knowing Chapter in ously discussed
when consid- important burned is might be holes that at-
to fuel, in relation but of structures, protection ering
of amount the minimum to know important it more
aluminum which for the fuel, can ignite that charge
nec- of charge the amount knowing means structures
tank. the in hole smallest the even burn to essary
amount skins: The aluminum of Ignition thresholds
alu- through to melt required and current charge in of
caus- thicknesses various skins of and titanium minum
1968 [7.30] Brick in by was reported fuel ignition ing
to depend 1972 [7.31] Schneider in Oh and by and and
While as charge. as well current amplitude on heavily
delivered 22 C, when over that shown had work earlier or
to burn through were necessary 200 A, of a current by
of Brick, the work skins, in) aluminum mm (0.080 2.06
when about 10 C, that only showed and Schneider to Oh,
com- to melt was enough 500 A, by about delivered the
skin. of aluminum same thickness the pletely through the
when deliv- as 2 C, tests as little In their laboratory
through completely a hole melted A, 130 by about ered
in) of aluminum. mm (0.040 1.02
for thresholds melt-through and Schneider's Oh
7.12 shown in Fig. are other skin thicknesses these and the
to the proximity of their test electrode [7.32]. The close
restricted may have (0.1 to 0.2 in), to 4.8 mm skins, 2.4 is
skin surface of the the arc on the movement of natural
same spot, to enter the charge all of the and caused
ignition thresholds. causing low coulomb thus
with [7.36] and Plumer Gerstein, by Kester, Work in-
above (0.25 in) 6.4 mm spaced electrode L-shaped an
showed and movement, arc greater permitted skin, the
re- are 130 A, at delivered when or more, C 20 that the
aluminum in) (0.040 mm 1.02 a through melt to quired
currents by generated fields magnetic However, skin. ti-
of movement have forced might skin to the parallel
re- neither is arc lightning a natural Since arc. the
that it is probable electrode, by an nor forced stricted
is between threshold meltthrough aluminum true the
the On surfaces. uvi,•.intied for at least limits, two the
of most properties insitutting electrical the hand, other
and point one at arc remain the make to tend paints of
smaller on a effects concentrate the heating would so
thermal of amount the decreasing metal, of volume
through. melt completely to required energy
1S2