On the the with to comply be applied must FARs.
com- not will structures to some damage hand, other
to protect. made not is a decision and safety promise
do and do usually that skins Examples of CFC
follows: as are protection require not
need protection. that may skins CFC
hulls. pressure o Fuselage
"o and pylons, nacelles Engine
"o surfaces. Flight control
"o devices, edge Leading
"o bays. Avionics
"o housings. and activator tips and empennage Wing
"o skins. Fuel tank
protection. not need may that skins CFC
"o Tail cones.
"o skins, fuselage Non-pressurized
"o fairings. Wing-body
"o dorsal fins. and Lntral
"o Landing gear doors.
of the some with factor associated nuisance The
protec- warrant may above listed items non-protected
be can protection effective shown, will be tion, and as
and weight. cost on impact very little with provided
and application skins of CFC protection for Methods
sections. following the discussed in are considerations
varying in benefits provided, protection basic The
(1.) include: methods following of the each by degrees,
of a portion that so conductivity, electrical improved
and layer protective the in flows current lightning the
that so dispersion, root arc (2.) and CFC the in not
a mul- at skins enter to caused are currents lightning
with compared as area, wider a over points of tiplicity
point, single a
fabrics: fine of are fabrics woven These wire Woven
typically in) (0.002 - 0.004 0.1 mm 0.05 - wires, metal
it metal, since is the preferred Aluminum in diameter.
compared as low resistivity and has weight is fight in
with patterns satin weave Plain and metals. with other
are per inch) 200 wires cm (100 - per to 80 wires 40
to the bonded is resin of this fabric layer One typical.
cure original the during CFC laminate of the exterior
direct contact fabric is in so that the metal process,
carbon fibers. with
corro- regarding concern designers express Some
cloth of fiberglass barrier a thin incorporate sion, and
Accelerated the CFC. fabric and metal the between
fabrics aluminum shown that have tests salt-spray
with coated and with resins and encapsulated cured

ex- service term long though corrode, do not paint
Other this. confirm to available yet is not perience
com- more are steel, stainless and as tin such metals,
preferred from sometimes are and CFC with patible
protection lightning their but standpoint, corrosion a
fabrics. of aluminum that than is less effectiveness
improved provide both fabrics woven metal The
"conductivity ef- protective and dispersion, root arc and
CFC (2 - 4 ply) on thin very good, even is fectiveness
of the the roughness is due to effect The latter skins.
concentration stress encourages which surface, woven
attach- the strike during points at many and puncture
limited to is normally Physical damage ment process.
the mesh. area of of a small erosion
is about fabrics woven wire of weight penalty The
 2 2 lb lb of protection ). This ft per (0.05 m per 0.5
penalty. weight a significant areas implies surface large
to- skin mold, in the up be laid should fabrics These
The wire and the CFC. ply any barrier gether with
laminate. of the ply be the outermost must mesh
of sin- are fabricated These metal foils: Expanded
to provide perforated and stretched foil, of gle sheets
meshes. to woven similar appearance and an openings
- (0.002 mm - 0.1 0.05 are typically foils expanded The
pro- and conduction current have thick, and in) 0.004
of to those similar characteristics effectiveness tection
with be co-cured should They meshes. wire woven
CFC pre-impregnated using resin laminate, CFC the
them, encap~slate bond and to fabric
ef- most the provide foils copper and Aluminum
be- used typically are and protection, lightning fective
shielding. electromagnetic some offer they cause
is somewhat foils of expanded penalty weight The
that than thicknesses) specific on (depending greater
bet- provide somewhat foils the but meshes, wire the of
due meshes, the do than shielding electromagnetic ter
fasten- mechanical with afforded contact better the to
expanded reason this surfaces. For metal and hard ers
against protection employed when sometimes are foils
effects is desired. and indirect direct both
are avail- cloths yarns and CFC CFC: coated Metal
on or electrodeposited electroplated with nickel able
is The metal of skins. conductivity to increase them
fibers usually all but thick, several microns typically
so a signifi- and are coated of cloth or ply in a yarn
in a resulting is achieved, resistance in cant reduction
tenth the volume resistivity with one coated CFC ply
ply. an uncoated of
strength mechanical suffers some CFC Coated
so material, uncoated with as compared degradation
as a struc- counted always be can not ply the coated
CFC of structural layer additional and one tural ply
weight. increasing thereby to furnished, be may have
150