criteria projection cycle, when design in the stage early
of earlier version an Sometimes established. are being
physical dimen- with available, is aircraft α derivative
similarity to enable of sufficient materials sions and
to be measured transients park" "ball representative
wire routes. in typical
from obtained can be data useful Occassionally,
fuselages wing, as such subassemblies of major tests
cases, test currents sections. In these empennage or
measure- and the subassembly through circulated are
that in wires induced of transients are made ments
for specifically the subassembly in installed have been
test purposes.
13.4.2 Measurement Transducers
usually measured are voltages induced Lightning
the aircraft under located inside with oscilloscopes
to the points under mea- test. These must be coupled
surement with voltage and current probes.
would one Ideally, measurements: to make Where
the wiring at voltage induced on aircraft the measure
at the boxes" "black in the components semiconductor
sel- This is 13.16(α). in Fig. as the wires, of ends
circuit under disturb the it would since practical dom
In "noise". to susceptible is too it and because test *
the volt- measure is to can do best one the practice
Sometimes Fig. 13.16(β). pins. at the connector age
boxes and on breakout make measurements one must
avoided if at but this is to be cables, Fig. 13.16(χ),
is very that it indicates since experience all possible,
of noise amount up excessive avoid picking to difficult
cables. breakout such on
Fre- measurements: circuit and short circuit Open
the tests is to study full vehicle of the objective quently
than how rather on wiring harnesses, intrinsic pickup
is cases it In such devices. with terminal they interact
the de- from harnesses the to disconnect appropriate
ground. to the conductors one end of to short vices and
between be measured then would voltage cizcuit Open
the har- of ends Next, both and ground. end the other
circuit current short groanded and the be would ness
measured.
Measurement probes voltage impedance High
fairly sophisti- requires voltages induced lightning of
to compared large, These are quite owilloscopes cated
as be placed can seldom and boxes" avionic "black
would as one investigation under the devices to close
Σ
influ- more, much, or are as they Furthermore, like.
the air- as are fields and magnetic electric by the enced

oscilloscope that the means This "black boxes" craft
which in- fields, magnetic from the shielded must be
even more. requirement the space creases
to enough close be placed can oscilloscope If the
impedance conventional high test, object under the
signal to the couple the be used to probes can voltage
com- long are - 3 μ leads 2 Probes with oscilloscope.
available. mercially
scope
wiring Α/C
(β)
(χ)
box
made. can be measuremants Where 13.16 Fig.
(α) Ideal
(β) Sometimes practical
avoided be To (χ)
placed must be the oscilloscope If probes: Resistive
im- low through must be coupled it away, then further
untermi- through cables. Connection coaxial pedance
low imped- for satisfactory is only coaxial cables nated
measurements. low frequency and for circuits ance
must cables the are involved frequencies If higher
under then the circuit ohms, but in 50 be terminated
be re- can Loading excessively. be loaded may test
the mea- series with in α resistor connecting duced by
the that drawback has the this but cable, surement
is oecilloscope measurement to the delivered voltage
is and voltage signal original the of fraction only α
higher The pickup. by noise contaminated easily more
smaller the but the loading, lower the resistance, the
If α 4950 the oscilloscope. to transmitted signal the
365