shield may also be consid- In the time domain the
§11.3.4, Eq. penetration time, ered "thin" if the pulse
time and duration 11.23, is small compared to the rise
noise currents. of the interfering
shield is not thin, Fig. tubular shields: If the Thick
the upon depends field electric the internal 15.12,
and material shield of the the resistivity of product
of surface the internal on the current of density the
cur- internal this discussed in §11.3.3, As shield. the
as the same be in general, will not, Ji, rent density,
of the surface the external on of the current the density
the of skin effect, Because of the phenomenon cylinder.
the shield will surface of on the inner current density
current. noise external the does than slowly more rise
the inner on density thd current at which rate The
the to proportional be directly will increases surface
square to the and material the shield of permeability
to the proportional inversely and thickness wall of the
solid-wall with Cables wall material. the of resistivity
fit- with tightly metal of solid trays cable and shields
of behavior, type this exhibit will typically ting covers
1Ω,
I.__
(α)
WMJ τ=UU
INTW4Ok ALIC FWD 14K I
(β)
through α solid wall. Coupling via diffusion Fig. 15.12
polarities (α) current and field
field waveshapes (β) Current and
is found at dc transfer impedance The maximum
pur- frequency. For all practical decreases with and
of can be taken α, that the transfer impedance poses,
in [15.7], 9.117, or as expressed Eqs. 9.116 and
+ (I (15.6) 1 j)τ/6
+ j)τ/λ" sinh(1 27rrat
the wall thick- assume that The above expressions
and the radius of the tube small compared to ness is

the smallest wave- is small compared to that the radius
shield is also assumed that the of interest. It is length
so that the displacement made from α good conductor
is negligible compared in the shield material current
any conduction current. Such is the case for to the
shield, practical metal
given was previously resPonse domain The time
α step-function to response In §11.3.5. and in §11.3.4
accord- increase will field electric the internal current
predicted constant time pulse penetration to the ing
An equivalent 11.8. in Fig. shown and by Eq.11.23
time domains and frequency to both applicable circuit
in as shown more terms, of two or network is α ladder
and 11.11. Figs. 11.8
do not 15.13, Fig. shields, Shields: Braided Braided
α have they since cylinder conducting perfect α provide
leak- permit which Fig. 15.14, holes, of small number
weaving of the The fields. magnetic and age of electric
number the of in terms is described shield braided-wire
the shield, up the make that (carriers) of wires of bands
number the and carrier (ends) in each of wires number
These char- (picks). unit length per crossings of carrier
define the radius of the shield, acteristics, along with
cover- the shield, the optical volume of metal in the
large volume of metal the weave angle. Α age and
but also α and good shielding, implies low resistance
aircraft. for drawback is α which weight, large
shield (15.3]. Pattern of α braided Fig. 15.13
and The optical cov- weave angle: Optical coverage
of holes in measure of the number erage of α shield is α
the smaller the optical coverage the shield, the higher
the shielding. The holes and the better the area of the
wire forming of bundles the individual between holes
approximated as α group of dia- can be the shield
depend upon orientation of which the size and monds,
is small the long angle. If the weave angle the weave
404