by flux produced the magnetic nant area intercepting
the lightning current in the wing.
As in the three previous examples, the basic volt-
age developed in this antenna, and shown in Fig.
8.15(χ) or 8.15(ε) followed the same pattern as that
shown for the other circuits. The rapid transition on
the leading edge of the voltage, however, was capable
of exciting an oscillation within the coaxial cable feed-
ing the antenna. When the antenna circuit was termi-
nated in α resistor matching the surge impedance of
the cable, the higher frequency ringing oscillation dis-
appeared, leaving only the underlying response of the
antenna to the muagnetic field surrounding the wing.
eGfLUXt PSRG
(Δ-ρ
SURGEr (α) GENERATOR (β)
~ V 20
•----40Ops. 1
(χ)-4 40 1 .1
Not Determined
nH = 0.06 Λ3
Ofl 20 = (δ) I
Α pylon circuit - open at pylon. Fig. 8.13
(α) Circuit orientation
(β) Electrical details of circuit
Open circuit voltage (ρ)
(δ) Equivalent circuit
Signiflcant conclusions: Several significant things
were learned during this test series. The first was that
the voltages induced in α typical circuit within the
wing consisted uf the sum α magnetically indtced of ,
to the ie- end α component proportional component
sistance of the current path. The !ucation at which
the wing huAk an impor- the lightning flash contacted

on developed magnitude cf voltage effect on the tant
different circuits.
Nearly all the voltages and currents measured on
the circuits could be explained in terms of α simple
equivalent circuit, such as those shown in Fig. 8.16.
One way to view these equivalent circuits is in terms of
the self inductance of the wing, the self inductance of
the circuit within the wing, and the mrtual impedance
between the wing and the internal conductor, as shown
in Figs. 8.16(α) and (β). Some attempts at developing
equivalent circuits have ignored the effects of mutual
inductance, but it is not correct to do so.
V'
V
Τ
0 7TANK 00~2
R3 ε Ri
(β) RELAY
PYLON
Hr--rr Ar
so0V
Λ•-.---40 LL.Λ (χ)
Α14 - -I(χ
Fig. 8.14 Α pylon circuit - loaded at pylon.
(α) Circuit orientation
circuit of details Electrical (β)
(χ) Open circuit voltage
to view- Another, and probably better, approach
circuits is one based upon α transfer ing equivalent
impedance, as shown in Fig. 8.16(χ). In the approach
based on self and mutual inductances the self induc-
tance of the wing would be nearly equal to the mutual
inductance between the wing and the internal conduc-
tor. The difference between the two would be equal to
the transfer inductance in the latter approach. Since
the values of the transfer impedance will be much
vmaller than the values representing the self impedance
of the circuit, thn latter approach leads to the more
compati- equivalent circuit. It is also easily handled
ble with the concept of mutual inductance or transfer
cables in Chapter 13. discusmed for shielded impedance
233