Σ~~LIGHTNING
• .
CURRENT'"
(α)
(β) COAX FLUX 752 (α)
ANTENNA -- ,R 7-,
IL
1...,.-.• Μ.
__o___(Eoe 30ju (ε ,--30,(us-- R
(χ) circuit. antenna An 8.15 Fig.
circuits. Equivalent 8.16 Fig. orientation Circuit (α)
(β) Electrical details of circuit (α) and (β) Circuits based on self and
(χ) Open circuit voltage - = 00 mutual inductances of the wing RT
(δ) Open circuit voltage - = 75fl (χ) Circuit based on an equivalent transfer RT
(ε) Open circuit voltage - = oo admittance: Z RT = Rt + jwMt
= 0 - curernt circuit Short (φ) RT
(DFBW) Fly-By-Wire Digital 8.7.2
There did not seem to be any easy way in which The second set of measurements [8.16], about
the magnitudes of the transfer impedance could be re- which some discussion will follow, was that made on
lated ι;o the physical geometry of the wing or to the an F-8 aircraft fitted with α fly-by-wire control sys-
location of the conductors within the wing. It was tem. The fly-by-wire controls, shown in Fig. 8.17,
possible, however, to say that conductors located in consisted of α primary digital system, α backup ana-
the forward portion of the wing were better shielded, log system, and α common set of power actuators op-
and consequently had lower transfer impedances, than crating the control surfaces. The major components
those along the trailing edge. Likewise, it could be ob- of the control system were located in three locations:
served that circuits which did not have any electrical the cockpit, where sensors coupled to the controi stick
return through the wing structure had lower transfer provided signals for the control systems; an area be-
impedances than those circuits which did have α return hind the cockpit, where there was located the digital
through the wing structure, computer; and α compartmet behind and below the
Α significant point was that short circuit currents cockpit on the left side of the aircraft. This latter
had waveshapes of longer duration than did open cir- compartment was one that would normally have been
cuit voltages. This occurs because the impedance of occupied by guns. Accordingly, it will be referred to as
conductors is primarily inductive, not resistive. Some the "gun bay", though in this research aircraft it was
of the specifications now being placed on proof test- used to house the interface and control assemblies, not
ing for aircraft avionic systems do not recognize this guns.
inductive nature of wiring systems. Rather, by design Several hydraulic actuators were located at each
or by oversight, they effectively treat the impedance of the major surfaces. These were interconnected to
as being resistive, α factor that complicates test proce- the fly-by-wire control systems through wire bundles
dures and may lead to improper interpretation of test that ran under the wings. The control systems did
results. This matter is discussed further in Chapter not depend upon the aircraft structure as α return
18. path; the system was considered to have α single-point
234