Α 109405 - 10
σ-' 22708 α :
Ssmi 1294530 α-'
time σ =
5.4. in Fig. is also shown waveform current The
Compo- current: of rise rate H - High Component
rate peak α kA and 10 of current peak α H has nent
is waveform The 0+. τ = at 2 10"Α/σ Ξ of rise
as mathematically
ι(τ) Io 0 - -
where
10572 Α io =
187191 σ-1 =
σ-1 19105 =
σ time = τ
The current waveform is shown in Fig. 5.6.
and Α, components Current Application: C, Δ Β,
characteristics the important comprise together
not although current flash lightning natural severe
the everywhere on may attach the components of
are described and H Α, craft. Components Δ Β,
the to provide expressions exponential double
and as rise such characteristics tant waveshape
amplitude and charge peak rate of rise, times,
is α rectangular C integral. Component or action fer
of the charge most transfers pulse that current
components applicable The current flash. lightning
which 5.2, in Table are shown areas specific
lightning strike to the components the current
α particular on strike zones for locating Guidance
in §5.6.1. craft is presented
Table 5.2
Zones In Various Applicable Components Current
C~lrt• Wav•ε• ane
multiple multiple
χ Surst Δ Stroke AaXxXXXX ta
XXXX 3Α
xXXXX 2α
KKXKKK 2
Ois
flash con- lightning cloud-to-ground typical Α
of version α severe restrike, than one more tains
fact, flashes Δ. In by component represented

03nly
For pro' been recorded. strokes have up to 24 taining
consider to adequate is it effects, direct tection against
one return stroke or restrike (Component Α or Δ)
because this is assumed to occur anywhere within the
for However, 2Α or 2Β). zone (1Β, strike appropriate
consider to it is necessary effects of indirect evaluation
flash, lightning of an actual nature the multiple-stroke
corre- strokes may induce the succession of because
example) (for circuits transfer in data pulses sponding
sys- sensitive to damage cumulative upset or causing of
multi- following the purpose, this For or devices. tems defined
the α basis using as defined, has been flash stroke pie
stroke) and (first return Α definitions of components
(5.6) Δ (restrike).
multiple stroke The synthesized stroke: Multiple
fol- component defined as an Α current is waveform
lowed by 23 randomly spaced restrikes of peak ampli-
This waveform is shown tude of 50 000 amperes each.
2 of α period over occur restrikes 23 The 5.5. Fig. in
constraints. following the to according sec
is strokes subsequent time between The minimum -
10 Ms.
strokes subsequent between time The maximum H
200 ms. is of α
all
identical parameters waveform have restrikes The air-
that exception the with component Δ current to the by
airframe of an most Because 703 amperes. 54 = impor- I0
more of the one or as well as zone 3 located within is decay
nearly is environment stroke the multiple zones, other trans-
special cases may be there However, applicable. always
and subsystem or aircraft system the 2 where α in zone in
Α of the initial effects from the is isolated wiring to its
to the not exposed therefore and is component current relates
cases, special In these or fields. current component Α zones.
current the first but still applies multiple stroke the air-
000 α peak of 200 from be reduced can component
should The applicant amperes. 100 000 to amperes
coordinate this reduction in multiple stroke environ-
basis. case by α case on FAA the with ment
too Ω,
so 0 .
N.
Α
I $*mods Λ
which
flash. Multiple stroke 5.5 Fig. con-
101