Fig. 18.7. Test cells can be is frequently used for evalua- test cells, as sketched in Capacitive injection
hold several pieces of equipment, yet become widely made large enough to tion of NEMP effects, but has not
cables. along with the necessary interconnecting used for evaluation of lightning effects.
Strip line test cells are most appropriate for evalu-
coupling to items in free space and are not widely Circuit Injection ating 18.2.4 Ground
used to evaluate lightning indirec& effects inside air-
ohms is, in general, not 377 ef- craft, where α simulation of the This might be considered E/H
are discussed briefly of the air- Field immersion techniques fects of voltage rises that occur in portions
the aircraft. in §18.8. craft when lightning current flows through
technique, illustrated in Fig. 18.5, involves apply- The
the and allowing the EUT case of to the voltage ing α
the to distribute among voltages and currents transient
leads. Leads from the EUTr-- various interconnecting
vicinity of the EUT TGE that are normally grounded in the
to the EUT for the test. are connected TE
12~~
EUT TG
Fig. 18.5 Γ round circuit injection. , . . . . . . . 7. 7 ρ Π 7
is one that is generally (β) Fig. 18.6 Field immersion. The giround injection test
(α) Electric fields system, either to check for upset made on α functioning
(β) Magnetic fields Test procedures are discussed or to check for damage.
further in §18.7.
18.2.5 Field immersion wave testspropagatng
EZ I TGEUTI arise because problems transient Mast lightning
being coupled into interconnecting wires. of energy
the injection tests de- For assessing this interaction
Combined electric and magnetic fields. They do not, however, Fig. 18.7 scribed above are appropriate.
for leakage of electromagnetic fields into directly check
housing electronic equipment. These leakage the cases
by immersing α case in an elec- effects can be checked
Elements the elements of the test 18.2.6 Tests on Circuit tromagnetic field simulator,
in Fig. 18.6. Checking for electric field being shown
necessary to evaluate break- involves placing the case between Tests are sometimes effects, Fig. 18.6(α),
of individual circuit el- applied of magnitude down voltages and currents two plates to which α voltage is
electrome- ements, such as resistors, capacitors, and to develop the required electric field. Check- sufficient
or to evaluate interface protec- effects, Fig. 18.6(β), requires chanical components, ing for magnetic field
are for more complex circuits. Test connections the case α current sufficient to gen- tion circulating around
are beyond 18.8, but test techniques sketched in Fig. magnetic field, erate the required
also be used tests can Such of this material. the scope magnetic and that electric tests require Some
various trnn- active circuits respond to to study how the ratio often with simultaneously, fields be developed
and given in [18.1] studies are of such sients. Examples propagating with α wave ohms associated = 377 E/H
[18.2]. witli strip line can be made Such tests in free space.
469