ventional camera, Generally an image intensifier sec- Switching impulses: Recent studies (from about
tion is used to amplify the image and make it possible 1965) have mostly focussed on the mechanism of
to display phenomena that are only faintly luminous, breakdown when electrodes are exposed to switching
The focused beam can be moved by deflection plates impulses since it has been found that such impulses
similar to those used in a cathode ray tube. cause flashovers at much lower voltages than do light-
ning impulses. Positive impulses produce breakdown
and have been than negative impulses at lower voltage
on focussed have studies the Also, studied. most the mode streak in image
the behaviour with voltages just sufficient to cause
breakdown and have not dealt with the breakdown
In overvoltages. to subjected is gap the when process mode framing in image
this respect the studies have differed from eariy studies
moving lens of breakdown with lightning voltages where the influ-
ence of excess voltage on the speed of breakdown has
of insulation. to design been important electrode
developing Fig. 1.20, adapted from Fig. 10 of [1.1] and from
breakdown [1.9], shows sketches of what would be revealed when
film is sviewing, with a streak camera, the breakdown of a
rod-plane gap when the rod is energized with posi-
tive polarity surges of the indicated waveshape. Pho-
groun tographs showing the phenomena in more detail ap-
plane pear in [1.1.]. For some rates of rise of voltage the
discharge proceeds fairly smoothly toward the ground
electrode. If the rate of rise is lower the discharge
Fig. 1.19 Streak and framing cameras, becomes more discontinuous. In general, the corona
propagates from the developing leader towards the
ground plane, as evidenced by the slope of the image 0
produced by the developing corona.
800 kV voltage collapses when
leader contacts ground
plane and develops
into an arc
0 20 us
corona propagates from
the leader toward the
ground plane
corona
time
kV 750 kV 900
0 us 30
-coonat- leader eader
corona
0 400 us
Fig. 1.20 Influence of wave-front on the development of the leader stroke.
Adapted from [1.11 and [1.9].
12