cient to tell how the diverters will work in actual
tice. Laboratory testing of complete non-conducting
structures, such as radomes, including simulation
the conducting objects inside the radome, is the
way to evaluate any particular design.
Application of diverters: Proper application of either
type of diverter involves being sure that there is never
enough voltage to cause puncture through the insulat-
ing structure to the internal objects. Voltage can
velop because of the resistance of the ionized channel
along α segmented diverter or because of the induc-
tance of α solid diverter. Diverters should be neither
too far from the objects to be protected nor too close,
Typical diverter spacings range from 30 cm (12 in)
(24 in). Application guidelines are: 60 cm
1. As much as possible, orient the diverters in α
and aft direction, as shown in Fig. 6.32(α).
provides an opportunity for swept strokes to
low the diverter, rather than jumping across
insulating structure being protected.
keep and diverters of adequate number an Provide 2.
the current path as short as possible, although
this might require some diverters to be oriented
perpendicular to the line of flight.
3. Use enough diverters to be sure that any light-
the of surface the across flash will strike ning
striking and skin the puncturing than rather
objects under the skin. Fig. 6.32(β) illustrates
the point.
4. The spacing of either type of diverter depends
the dielectric strength of the skin material,
proximity of conducting objects behind the skin,
and the length of the diverters. Typical spacings
range from 30 cm (12 in) to 60 cm (24 in),
there are no "cook book" analytical tools with
which to determine the necessary spacing for
ticular configurations. Selection of spacing is
done by test of actual structures with diverters
applied in α "cut and try" process. Flat panel
specimens of the non-conductive composite
may be used for spacing tests; it is not necessary
to have α complete sample of the object to be
tected. Α typical test setup is shown in Fig. 6.33.
5. Be sure that the current along the diverter does
not produce enough inductive voltage rise to cause
puncture to the internal objects, as illustrated
Fig. 6.34. The inductive voltage rise,
(6.20) Λ- V =
dt

prac- may be calculated by assuming Λ to be 1 H/μ for
most diverters, and assuming dr/dt to be 100,000
of Α/ps (1 ξ 101 Α/σ). This voltage rise must be
best compared with the puncture voltage of the corn-
posite skin and the air gap between the skin and
conductive objects inside. If this is not known,
the design can be verified by α high current test
of α typical diverter installation.
de- 6. Fasten the diverter strips or bars securely to the
skin. Solid diverters are mechanically fastened
about every 15 cm (6 in). Segmented diverters
are adhesively bonded directly to the composite
skin.
to
either type of diverter, provide α At the aft end of
suitable path to carry the lightning current to the
fore conducting airframe structure. This can be via
This α single fastener or α fastener and spacer combi-
fol- nation, as illustrated in Fig. 6.35. In either case
the the arrangement should be capable of conducting
currents appropriate for the zone in which the di..
verters Pre located.
7. Provide an appropriate finish. This may be α
paint on solid diverters, but the individual seg-
ments of segmented diverters must not be covered
with primers or paints. If covered with paint, these diverters will not ionize and thus will not
ion. τ skin
function. the
8. The protection adequacy of α complete diverter
arrangement should be verified by high voltage
strike attachment tests to verify ability to inter-
on cept strikes and prevent puncture, and by high
the current tests to confirm adequacy of mechanical
and electrical fastening and grounding designs.
These tests must be conducted on full scale hard-
but ware duplicating that to be used in production.
par- The intent of Guideline 3 is to assure that enough
best diverters are used to prevent punctures resulting from
initial srikes. Guideline 4 extends this criterion for
swept strokes, and Guideline is aimed 5 at preventing
skin punctures resulting from inductive voltages that arise
when lightning currents flow through the diverter.
pro- Guideline 6 is aimed at assuring that the diverter re-
mains physically attached and adequately bonded to
the airframe when it is called upon to conduct or guide
high currents.
In applying these guidelines it is helpful to know
in the voltage needed to puncture covers or to cause
flashover across α surface. The voltage to puncture
α particular nonmetallic skin is α function of the ma-
patterns, as of layup as well thickness, and type terial
core fillers, and surface treatments. Examples of skin
142