rent flow path is there likely to be physical damage. tachment point is viewed electrically as being made
On the other hand, where the currents converge to up of a large number of parallel conductors converg-
the immediate vicinity of an entry or exit point, there ing to this attachment point, then as lightning cur-
may be a sufficient concentration of magnetic force and rent flows from the point, forces occur which tend to
resistive heating to cause damage. Damage at these draw these conductors closer together. If a structure
points is further compounded by the arc of the light- is not sufficiently rigid, pinching or crimping may oc-
ning channel, from which intense heat and blast forces cur, as shown in Fig. 4.4 [4.4]. The amount of damage
emanate. Discussion of individual effects follows, created is proportional to the square of the lightning
stroke current amplitudes and is directly proportional
Meltthrough stroke current which this during of time to the length and Pitting 4.2.1
flows. Thus the high amplitudes of return stroke and
If a lightning channel touches a metal surface for a intermediate stroke are the lightning flash components
sufficient time, melting of the metal will occur at the most responsible for magnetic force damage.
point of attachment. Common evidences of this are
the successive pit marks often seen along a fuselage
-
or empennage, as shown in Fig. 4.2 [4.2] or the holes
burned in the trailing edges of wings or empennage
tips, as shown in Fig. 4.3 [4.3]. Most holes are melted
in skins of 1 mm (0.040") thick, or less, except at trail-
ing edges, where the lightning channel may hang on for
a longer time and enable holes to be burned through
much thicker pieces. Since a relatively large amount
of time is needed for melting to occur, the continu-
ing currents are the lightning flash components most
conducive to pitting and meltthrough. Meltthrough of
skins is usually not a safety-of-flight problem unless
this occurs in an integral fuel tank skin.
Fig. 4.3 Hole melted in trailing edge
comer of ventral fin.
extending aft pit marks 4.2 Successive Fig.
from leading edge of vertical stabilizer.
Magnetic 4.2.2 Force
Metal skins or structures may also be deformed
as a result of the intense magnetic fields which ac-
company concentrated lightning currents near attach-
ment points. It is well known that parallel wires with
current traveling in the same direction are mutually Fig. 4.4 Example of magnetic pinch effect at
attracted to each other. If the structure near an at- lightning attachment points.
71