.aircraft
--
SOMONPILAMEt
IL
Fig. 6.55 Zener diode model of boron filaments
within a laminate,
effects just the current conduction In addition to
blast forces from and the high temperature described,
the arc have been found to cause substantial damage
at the point of attachment, just a boron composite
with CFC structures. Holes blown in a boron compos-
greater than would tend to be somewhat ite material
be expected in a CFC panel of similar thickness.
tails of test results will not be reviewed further since
boron materials are now seldom used.
6.6.2 Protection of Boron Composites
Boron composites can be protected by several
of the same techniques previously described for non-
conductive composites. The electrical behavior
boron is more like the non-conductive composites re-
inforced with aramid fiber and glass than CFC, so
woven wire mesh, expanded aluminum toil and arc
flame-sprayed metals are most appropriate. Interwo-
ven wires and metal-coated boron filaments have
been evaluated for protection of boron composites and
these methods are not as likely to be as successful
they are for protection of CFC.
If composites reinforced with boron or other less
familiar materials are to be employed in the future,
extensive testing will be necessary to define and quan-
tify lightning effects and develop satisfactory protec-
tion methods.
Systems Propulsion on Effects Direct 6.7
Lightning attachment to an engine pod or

celle can result in damage to the structure. Struc-
tural effects of this type are identical to those dis-
cussed previously for other exposed structure. The
propulsion system does contain some unique
functions which can be damaged by lightning direct
contain nu- engines efficiency new high The effects.
merous electronic monitors and controls which may be
vulnerable to the indirect effects of lightning. Those
effects are covered in Chapters 8 - 18. The effects dis-
cussed here are those related to propellers and rotors,
turbofan engines. and stalls of gear boxes,
671Propeilers
Aircraft propellers are frequent targets for light-
ning strikes. The general location of propellers, front
for traction or rear for pusher, probably accounts
for their susceptibility to lightning strike attachment.
Tractor blades are in a Zone or 2A location 1A while
pushers will be in Zone The high current compo- lB.
nent of lightning , due to its short duration, will affect
only one blade. The duration of the intermediate cur-
rent is of a short enough time that it will also involve
does spin fast the blades, but the propeller only one of
current will continuing the long duration enough that
to divide among all the blades.
as A lightning flash to a metal propeller does little
damage. It may produce minor pitting and erosion of
to require but not sufficient metal at trailing edges,
De- corrective action beyond filing down of rough spots.
Propellers of fiberglass are more vulnerable to
lightning, especially if internal conducting parts are
present. Then the flash can puncture to those in-
ternal conducting objects, causing delamination and
eventually complete destruction. If the internal part
has only a small cross-section it can explode and cause
explosive shattering of the blade. Lightning current
of entering a heater wire, for example, could propagate
elsewhere and cause problems, but that is an indirect
the effect treated in later chapters. Protection techniques
or are the same as for other dielectric structures as de-
scribed in §6.3.5 and include conductive paints, divert-
not ers, and surface coatings. Often a metal leading edge
rain erosion strip can be designed to safely intercept
as the lightning flash.
Dielectric blades will be subject to precipitation
static problems and any antistatic system that is in-
stalled will be subject to lightning as well. The effects
of lightning strikes to the antistatic system must be
assessed to insure that no safety of flight hazards can
occur. Graphite composite blades are less vulnerable
to lightning than dielectric composites, but verifica-
function of the critical to the due is mandatory tion
blade. If protection is required, methods discussed in
na- §6.5 can be applied.
158