shield voltage is α minimum, so that excitation of Grounding to remote point: Sometimes shields are
the internal conductors by the transfer admittance not connected at all to the panel on which the con-
is small, even if the transfer admittance itself is not nector is mounted, but instead are connected to some
small. remote "system ground" point, Fig. 15.23(χ). Such
for Shields Connections Ground 15.9 intro- it because avoided be always should practice
duces enough impedance to completely destroy the ef-
The transfer parameters of Table 15.2 refer only fectiveness of the shield. Such α practice reflects α
to the properties of the connector itself. Additional misunderstanding of the role of "ground" connections.
transfer impedances may be produced by the manner
in which the cable shield is connected to the connec- Calculation of effects: The coupling introduced by
tor or by the manner in which the cable connector is any of these configurations can be studied in terms of
mounted to α bulkhead. Even slight inattention to the self-impedance of the conductor used for the pig-
detail may introduce into the circuit transfer imped- tail and the mutual inductance between α portion of
ances far greater than the impedance of the connector the pigtail and the conductors in the connector. The
or possibly far greater than that of the rest of the cable flow of current through the self-inductance of the pig-
shield, tail produces α voltage
Pigtail grounding: Α common treatment of α shield V (15.9) = jwL
at α connector is to insulate the shield with tape and
connect it to the back shell through α pigtail. Such This voltage, less that induced in the mutual in-
treatment is shown in Fig. 15.23(α). Equally common ductance between the pigtail and the conductors in the
practice is to insulate α panel connector from α panel connector, will add directly to that produced by the
with an insulating block and to ground the panel con- flow of current along the shield.
nector either to the panel through α pigtail or, more The self-inductance of conductors was discussed
commonly, to an internal ground bus. Α very com- in §9.7.3. There, Eqs. 9.57 and 9.75, the inductance
mon treatment of α shield at α connector, shown in of α straight conductor of non-magnetic material was
shown to be to one to be connected the shield 15.23(χ), is for Fig.
of the connector pins and grounded internally through 2 = 10-7ln Ξ [In (15.10) Λ -
Λ ρ the panel or to an internal ground α pigtail, either to
bus. where I = length and ρ radius of the wire. The -
inductance of α typical pigtail will not be significantly
different even if it is not straight.
owSnAATW
PANK PAO
SO~iC~aSPSOT"Π
(δ)
(χ)) ,δ.
Fig. 15-23 Commo treatment of shields at connectori.
(α) Pigtail connection α to backshell Shield (χ) carried on connector α pin
Pigtail (β) grounding to α panwl connector (δ) grounded Shield to remote point
409