()return wirse
Q~ returo wins.-
7
'- [- Q 'return
~
(β)
wires•[(13.3]
(χ)
circuits. Return 13.2 Fig.
- bad wire Single (α)
Coaxial (β) wire - good C α wirew gwas ()
(χ) End view
is return grid the further the theory, In Diameter:
but more better, aircraft the the of the surface from
spaciug increases the impedance of the test circuit and
adversely affects the ability to generate the desired cur-
rents through the aircraft. Best simulation would in-
volve having the aircraft suspended with wheel well
doors closed. Since this is seldom practical, the spac-
ing to the wires cannot be more than the one or two
meters that the wheels support the aircraft above the
ground. Also, in theory, the more wires in the re-
turn path the better, but studies [13.21 have shown
that about eight conductors arranged more or less uni-
formly around the aircraft are adequate.
Impedance: Inductance and surge impedance can be
estimated by calculation. Treating the aircraft and the
return circuit as coaxial cylinders of the dimensions
on Fig. 13.3 gives an inductance of 0.18 pH/μ shown
or 2.7 pH for the indicated length. Inductance of an
actual installation will be larger because the outer con-
ductor is α cage of wires. For typical systems it runs
%bout 0.5 pH/μ, and is best dettnvmned by measure-
ments on actual ins'allatlons. One approach to mea-
surement is to discharge α known capacitance into the
circ, it and obwe the ringing frequency.
The surge impedance of the transmission line
and formed by the aircraft return circuit of Fig. 13.3
calculates to be about ohms, 55 but for actual instal-
lations the impedance varies over the length of the
aircraft since the aircraft geometry changes over its
length. Typically it will in the be range of 75 to 125
ohms and is best evaluated by time domain reflectom-
etry techniques.

Σ..................
aII2
Fig. 13.3 Coaxial approximation of
circuit.
constant Lumped example: Fig. 13.4 shows typical
waveshapes that might be expected when treating all
elements as lumped constants. The generator circuit
shown was one used in an actual test of an aircraft
and 13.4(α) on Fig. shown the waveshapes and
(β) closely match those obtained in the actual test, as
will be shown in Fig. 13.7. The inductance of the air-
craft and its return circuit was not measured during
cal- by matching 8 uH estimated the the tests, but
typical is waveshapes culated and measured current
of actual circuits. The intent of that particular test
to obtain α current having α front time of several
microseconds and inductance of the aircraft wts not
to the generator was added inductance since critical
waveshape. the desired obtain to
Lumped constant circuits are sufficient to esti-
mate the peak current obtainable from α particular
generator. For this circuit. and during the tests of
[13.3], α current of 500 Α was obtained with α genera-
tor charged to 25 kV. Obtaining α full threat current
of 200 kiloamperes would have required α generator
charged to 10 megavolts.
The circuit can be configured to obtain higher
currents by reducing the series impedance, but doing
so precludes obtaining the desired double exponential
current wave. Reducing the series resistance increases
the time at which the current reaches its peak. If the
series resistance is reduced sufficiently the cusent be-
comes oscillatory. Fig. 13.4 shows the current wave-
eries resistance is reduced. as shapes
13.3.2 Traveling Wave Effects
It is not really sufficient to analyze interactions
between aircraft and surge generators using lumped
constant circuit techniques since the aircraft structure
is large enough that traveling wave effects must be
considered. The aircraft and the return circuit form
α sho.lt transmission line and when the switch iL the
generator is closed, α steep frmted voltage wave is in-
Jected into the aircraft. Associated with it will be α
steep fronted current wave.
At the end of the transmision line formed by the
aircraft and return conductors, reflected voltage and
current waves are launched of polarity such that the
355