Optical coupling: Some of the noise problems encoun-
tered during surge testing can be overcome by using
optical links to couple the outputs from voltage and
current probes to the measuring oscilloscope, but op-
tical links have problems of their own. Analog, not
digital, optical links are required, and the bandwidth
of the optical link should be as wide as that of the mea-
suring oscilloscope. Wide bandwidth optical links tend
to have high noise levels and limited dynamic range.
Sensitivity of the link is more prone to change than is
the sensitivity of conventional hard wired links. Care
must be taken not to overload the transmitters and
the sensitivity of the link must be checked frequently.
Swept Continuous Wave Low-Level 13.5
This frequency domain technique involves exciting
the aircraft with continuous waves rather than time
domain pulses. Basically, the method utilizes a net-
work analyzer to measure transfer functions, ampli-
tude and phase, from the lightning attachment point
to test points, voltage or current, within the aircraft.
These transfer functions, if measured over a suitable
wide frequency range, may then be multiplied by the
frequency spectrum of a lightning pulse to determine
the overall spectral response at the test point. Fourier
transforms can then be taken to evaluate the time do-
main response.
Advantages and disadvantages of the swept CW
technique are as follows:
Advantages
1. Standard low level oscillators and network analyz-
ers may be used. These are commercially avail-
able and operate at levels sufficiently low that
there are no safety problems, either to personnel
or the aircraft.
2. Narrow band tuned measuring instruments can
be used and these are more sensitive and less sus-
ceptible to interference than time domain instru-
ments.
Aircraft and wiring 3. system resonances are clearly
displayed and quantified.
4. System responses may be quantified by tabular
listings of amplitude and phase without need for
developing equivalent circuits.
5. Many useýrs are more used to working with fre-
quency domain data than with time domain re-
sponses.
370

Disadvantages
1. No way to evaluate non-linearities in the aircraft
response.
2. Scaling to full threat levels requires cousidernble
mathematical manipulation.
Safety 13.6
Most simulated lightning testing, even though ap-
plied at reduced levels, involves the use and opira-
tion of high voltage equipment including capacitors
and arcing switches. The electrical energies involved
human fatalities exceed the levels necessary to cause
and safety precautions must be taken and test proce-
dures followed which ensure that during the test appli-
cations, personnel cannot accidentally come in contact
with any electrically energized parts of the test circuit.
A secondary concern is the inherent danger of
passing substantial carrents through an aircraft fuse-
lage containing fuel. This concern includes the prob-
lems associated with electrical arcing taking place in
an area where fuel vapors may be present.
13.6.1 Perconnel Safety
People actively involved with operating surge gen-
erators and measuring equipment may need to be
physically close to or inside the aircraft during the test.
This is particularly true for those operating measuring
instruments. This can be done safely, but safety pro-
cedures must be developed and be well understood by
all, both those involved in the tests and those who may
be only casual bystanders.
Personnel familiarization: Prior to the start of active
testing, all personnel working in the area, both those
assigned to the test and those normally working in ad-
jacent areas, should be assembled for a safety briefing
and familiaiization with the project. Written safety
procedures are advisable.
Test area: The aircraft, lest generators, waveshaping
circuits, HV power supply, and capacitors will from
time to time be energized to potentially dangerous
voltages. A clearly defined test area should be fenced
or roped off in such a mannimer as to preclude any per-
son standing outside of the area from coming in con-
items or any other the above listed tact with any of
potentially hazardous point. No one should enter the
test area without the permission of the test operator.
0