6. Not normally availabie for voltages above a few
hundred volts.
Diodes Forward-Conducting 17.4.4
In a forward-conducting state, a diode conducts
little current below about 0.3 V for germanium and
V for silicon. They can, as a result, be placed directly
across a low-voltage line and afford substantial protec-
tion. Diodes can be connected in series for higher
age circuits. Diodes in parallel back-to-back would
needed for bipolar protection.
Advantages of forward-conducting diodes:
1.
1. Small size.
2. Not costly.
3. Provide protection at very low-voltage levels.
4. Excellent surge-current ratings.
Disadvantages:
1. Not bilateral. For protection of both polarities,
two diodes in parallel must be used. Some vendors
for protection purposes. supply bipolar diodes
2. Conduction may occur on normal signals with
tendant signal-clipping and frequency multiplica-
tion effects, Diodes must be used in series to levels. voltae
3. High capacitance.
17.4.5 Reverse Biased Diodes
17.22, Fig. in as shown diodes, biased Reverse
fer excellent protection for signal circuits. Under
mral operation the diodes are reverse biased and effec-
tively disconnected from the circuit, but whenever
voltage on the signal line exceeds the power supply
volta•, the diodes become forward biased and
the surge to be conducted into the capacitors. Since
no circuit will operate correctly for normal signals
ceeding the supply voltage for the input semiconductor
circuits, the supply voltage for the protective diodes
uutomatically of the correct level.
The reverse biased diodes have very low capai-
tance and the circuit is thus well adapted to protection
of high frequency circuits for which the capacitance
diodes presents surge protective and Zener type MOVe
problems. When called upon to provide protection,
*the diodes operate forward biased and even small

nal diodes can carry very large surge currents. Some
CMOS device3 have similar diodes built in, but they
are only intended to guard against static electricity
against protection offer to on relied be not should and
surges.
Resistors may be used to prevent excessive surge
0.6 energy from being conducted into the circuit power
supply and surge protective diodes can be used to by-
pass excessive surge energy to ground should the surge
volt- charge the capacitors to an excessive voltage.
be
Advantages reverse biased of diodes:
1. Low capacitance.
LSmallacsize.e
2. Excellent surge handling capability.
Disadvantages:
Must 1. be included in initial design of circuit.
2. Seldom practical to add to existing circuit boards.
"
load source
at-
)
raise -V
Fig. 17.22 Reverse biased diodes.
Protection Hybrid 17.4.6 of-
nor- Frequently a spark gap and a MOV, or a MOV
and surge protecting diode, a are used together to pro-
the vide added protection, as shown in Fig. 17.23. The
higher energy device is connected close to the point
allow where the surge may enter the system and the lower
energy device is connected close to the more sensitive
ex- components. The principal is that the high energy de.
vice provides the primary protection and diverts the
is major portion of the surge energy while the lower en-
ergy device provides protection for the residual tran-
sients.
of Isolation of deviceua Protective devices cannot be op-
with the the device in parallel since directly erated
lowest clamping voltage would all the surge cur- carry
sig- rent. Impedance between the two is needed to limit
451