Fuel tank skins in Zone 1Β, such as external tanks
o on rotorcraft, must tolerate all four current compo-
nents, and Δ, assumed to enter the skin at Α, Β, C
any spot in that zone. This will usually preclude use
of integral skin tanks, unless such skins have multiple
layers, as in sandwich construction,
The standard lightning environment described in
[7.28] and Chapter 5 is based on the known aspects
of cloud to earth flashes, as discussed in Chapter 2,
combined with studies of in-flight damage reported
by aircraft operators over the years. As such, these
current amplitudes are α good representation of what
to expect in α severe natural lightning flash. It is rec-
ognized, however, that more severe currents, like those
which sometimes occur in α positive polarity, cloud-
to-ground flash, could appear at Zone 2Α dwell points.
Berger [7.45), such flashes, recorded by An example of
7.17. is shown in Fig.
_unpainted _ _
Fig. 7.17 Positive polarity flash with delayed
starting time.
The current waveform measurement shown in that
figure was made at an instrument tower on the ground,
and the long, upward-moving leader which extended
from this tower to the cloud base, accounted for the
11.5 ms delay which elapsed before the return stroke
appeared at the ground. Not all of this delay would
have occurred had the measurement been made on an
aircraft in flight intercepting such α flash. Several mail-
liseconds of delay still could have elapsed between ini-
tial leader attachment to α forward extremity of the
aircraft and the occurrence of the return stroke over α
return stroke The positive polarity tank surface. fuel
could have delivered about 20 Α.. (coulombs) to this
attachment point during the 2 ma of time it would
Fig. 7.13, to the data of there. According have dwelled
melt-through of α mm (0.063 in.) aluminum skin 1.6
could be possible under these conditions.
Σ
There are reports of holes melted in 1.02 mm
(0.040 in.) skins from in-flight strikes in Zone 2Α
189

areas, but holes in 1.6 mm aluminum have not been
reported, α fact that demonstrates the apparent rat-
ity of the high-energy positive polarity flash in Zone
areas. Present standards and test practices do not 2Α
account for these flashes due to lack of evidence that
they have struck aircraft in critical zones.
7.5.3 Required Skin Thicknesses
Assuming that current amplitude, charge and
dwell time have been established, the graphs of Figs.
7.13 and 7.14 allow the designer to determine the thick-
nesses of aluminum or titanium skins required to en-
sure that the skin will not be melted through or over-
heated causing α hot spot by lightning.
that α bare skins: As an example, assume Aluminum
tank in Zone an integral is planned for aluminum skin
will fly at veloc- assume that the aircraft 2Α. Furthez,
ities as low as in/σ mph), which is typical for 58 (130
!approach to landing.
From Table 7.3 the expected dwell time for this
skin would be 2 ms. From Fig. 7.16, an
average of 2 kA would flow into the dwell point during
this period, delivering 4 Α.σ of charge. On Fig. 7.13
parameters intersect at α point-about half-way these
between the coulomb ignition threshold curves for 0.51
and 1.02 mm (0.040 in) aluminum skins. mm (0.020 in)
the thinnest nun (0.032 in) is This indicates that 0.81
skin that should be considered. Since there would be
little margin of safety if α skin of this thickness were
actually used, it would be prudent to select α greater
thickness, such as 1.02 mm (0.040 in) if at all possible.
as paint, will usually cause Kurface coatings, such
the dwell times to be longer than they would be on
unpainted skins. The type and thickness of the coat-
ing both affect the dwell time. Generally, the thicker
the coating, the longer the dwell time and the thicker
the skin must be to avoid melt-through. Consider,
for example, the longest dwell time, 20 ms, recorded
by Robb, Stahmann, and Newman [7.42] for α painted
surface. During this period the current of Fig. 7.17
would deliver 16 C. These parameters intersect at α
point just above the 2.29 mm (0.090 in) curve in Fig.
7.13, indicating that even the 2.03 mm (0.080 in) thick-
ness advised by some design guidelines would be in-
suflicient to prevent ignition where certain paints are
be used, it is advisable if paints must used. Therefore,
to perform swept flash tests, or to refer to in-flight
experience, if applicable, to establish the actual dwell
neces- required skin thickness and, therefore, the time
sary to prevent melt-through.
Titanium skins: By using the graph of Fig. 7.13, it
is possible to determine titanium skin thicknesses in α