the loop through passing the flux while •, ABCD,
11.2(β). of Fig. shaded area the by represented
flux, would be measured in webers. Remembering 0,
that
(11.7) Α/μ, ξ 10- = 4wr ,ao
V, becomes
 7 2 (11.8) ξ elog 1o- V- =
of 116 Α indicated current cm and the If is 31.4 ρ
2
of 0.25 time an equivalent crest in reaches Fig. 11.3
V. As steady of 129 voltage an initial then reach V, will
magnetic external and the are reached conditions state
to will decay with time, V, to change field ceases
V. of 0.0166 state value steady
ignores This analysis skin effect: Influence of
surface causes the that α phenomenon skin effect,
or currents alternating for to be higher pedance
sients will impedance dc. Surface it is for than
circuits external but for §11.3.4, in further discussed
effect from skin resulting resistance the increased
larger to the much compared consequence be of little
field. by the changing magnetic voltage induced
conductors While conductors: external of Example
such as an cylinder, carrying α current to external
are not unknown. they common, are not fuselage, craft
or rocket on α missile cables example might be the An
nose in the assembly α control between that run
cables necessity, such Of tail. the at controls engine the
the to external 11.4, Fig. in as shown run, must
α shielded not in cables are If the tanks. and oxidizer
mag- external to the exposed will be they tunnel, cable
field. netic
between spacing If the expression: Simplified
is not large, vehicle of the surfaces and the wires
magnetic since the simplified, somewhat may be 11.8
greatly with distance vary does not density flux
be considered and may the vehicle of the surface from
uniform.
id 10-' 2 ξ di
- V, ρ . (11.9)
-- 11Α
τ
"1V "--sumed
.
to scale). (not voltage External 11.3 Fig.

is
The
NO
Σ XS
in Ho
ps,
τ
\ its . σ
H_ the
ρ irn-
" tran- δ
be
will
air-
antennas. cable 11.4 Exposed Fig.
and
Circular on Voltage Internal 11.3.3
Cylinders fuel
to the internal the conditions consider now Let us
voltage the voltage, the external As with V cylinder. 2
of po- integral the line as defined can be 11.5 Fig. of the
ABCD being path path; the α complete around tential Eq.
two again have will voltage The appropriate. most the
field magnetic the changing due to one components, away
to the one due and loop the through pasing ABCD
the inside Conditions that path. current around of flow
those on from different be very will however, cylinder,
the outside.
internal to the in- field magnetic all, the First of
ner surface of the cylinder will be zero, as explained in
there field, magnetic no is there If §9.7.2. 9, Chapter
voltage Any voltage. magnetically induced no be will
resis- the through of current flow the to due be will
will There circuit. the of portions various the of tance
as- we have BC since the path be no voltage along
and there cap end the for conductor perfect α
since CD path the along resistive voltage no be will
and Α points between circuit open an assumed have we
voltage Any along current no implies which CD. Δ,
AS. path the along rise resistive to the due be must
310