Surfaces Reflecting 12.6
ef- the calculation made to determine α RFrequently
to take into through apertures needs rects of coupling
The sir- of reflecting surfaces. account the presence
reflecing case, shown in Fig. treats one 12.13, pleat
surface of infinite extent and parallel to the surface
any point field at The total θ ' aperture, containing
fields pro- is the sum of the the two surfaces between
images of the original infinite array of duced by the
the from each of The field strength magnetic dipole.
determined from Eqs. 12.16 be images would agair.
α few cases only most in Fortunately, 12.55. through
of the de- considered because images need be of the
cube of 6he distance field strength on the pendence of
presence of re-. The the point inder consideration. to
be more cvuie the fields to will, never fleeting surfaces
an than double the value due to the aperture by itself,
of the effects may make calculating ob6ervation that
exercise. reflecting surfaces an unnecessary
could reflecting surfaces principle, additional In
an define completely formulation to included in the be
in are shown reflecting surfaces Such volume. interior
Fig. 12.14.
IWAGE 3 WAGE OF OF 3 I VAW WN
τ' Σ9 9σ
_,____λ_,
0 ζ ζ -. .. Z RD 0 α 4
surface. Reflecting 12.13 Fig.
. 6 4 4 SURF•ACE *qr4
•circuit
APERTURE
Σ•RFACE REFLEC•ING
_Λ Σ - ι ι
__plane,
surfaces, reflecting Multiple 12.14 Fig.
Cable α to Aperture an From Coupling 12.7
by the cable in the space illuminated there is α If
into will be induced voltages and current aperture,
by developing can be determined that cable. They
343

that inserting aperture, the circuit of equivalent an
of response the for solving and cable the into circuit
will be aperture the this illustration, cable. Fbr the
of the situation is circular. The geomet-υ, considered
α characteristic Fig. cable having 12.15. Α shown in
the Z'is located at height η above surge impedance
surface containing the aperture and at α distance ω
impedance is Pu.irge Jhe the'aperture. from
(12.56) Z -/Λ
(12.1117) 601ν(2η/α).
-.'
o•. 0
equivalent
of circuit
aperture
ω;re. α to aperture an from Coupling 12.15 Fig.
in the aperture is shown equivalent circuit of An
Fig. 12.16. There are two aspects of the equivale.it
de- be considered, the first being to that must
The 1.. generators and the equivalent termine V.,
has aperture that the effect the is to determine second
cable. In an cf the inductance and1 capacitance on the
and capacitance geometry, the inductance, elementary
governed by the cable will be of the su-'gtg impedance
spacing between the cable and the adjacent ground
containing the as the conducting surface such
the cable near the aperture In the region aperture.
and plane, ground ;he from farther be effectively, will,
and α some- larger inductance have α scnewhat so will
the determine could One smaller capacitance. what
cable fields around the of the electromagnetic pattern
capac- inductance and the loralized and so determine
α cable to have to consider the but is easier -τ itance,
effects by account for these impedance and to constant