2. Magnetic fields are concentrated around protrud-
ing structural members and diverge in inside cor-
ners. Hence, conductors located atop protruding
members will intercept more magnetic flux than
conductors placed in corners, where the field in-
tensity is weaker.
Fields will be weaker on the interior of a U-shaped 3.
member than they will be on the edges of that
member.
4. Fields will be lowest inside a closed member.
Some examples of cable routing are shown on Fig.
16.2.
(a)
I
' '
,to (b)
Fig. 16.2 Conductor routing.
(a) A fuselage structure
(b) A wing structure
In each case pictured
Conductor 1 - highest flux linkages: worst
Conductor 4 - lowest flux linkages: best
structure, a cable a of interior the Along Stileners:
clamped to stiffeners, as at position will effectively L,
be spaced away from the metal skin by the height of the
stiffeners. A conductor along the outside edge of the
U-shaped member, as shown by conductor 2 in Fig.
16.2(a), may or may not be better placed than con-
ductor effectiveness depends on how closely the con- 1:
is attached to the side of the U-shaped men- ductor
ber. Conductor 3, placed along the edge where the
U-shaped member is attached to the stiffeners, would
probably be in a lower field environment than would
Io- either conductor or conductor 2. Conductor 4, I

cated on the interior of the U-channel, would be in
the lowest field region and hence in the most effective
position. Similar considerations apply to conductors
located in structures like wings or stabilizers.
Trailing edges: A conductor located along the outside
trailing edge of the wing, as shown by conductor in 1
Fig. 16.2(b), will pick up much more flux than will any
conductor located on the inside, probably by several
orders of magnitude. Hence conductor 2, located on
the inside of the trailing edge, would be better placed.
Conductors 3 and 4, in that order, would be in the re-
gions of lowest magnetic flux. conductor that could A
be run inside a major structural member, as shown by
conductor 4, will be exposed to a minimum amount
of magnetic flux. Conductor 5, located at the leading
edge of the wing, would be in a well shielded region if
the leading edge of the wing were metal, but it would
be in high field region and therefore vulnerable if a
the leading edge were a nonmetallic covering. How-
ever, even if the covering were metallic, conductor 5
would not be in as protected a region as either con-
ductor 3 or conductor 4, because of the tight radius of
the leading edge.
Windshield posts: Windshield posts, shown in Fig.
on the the current flowing 16.3, tend to concentrate
exterior surface of the vehicle, particularly if a flash
is swept back, contacting the windshield pou.t directly
or the eyebrow region above the windshield. Since the
magnetic field intensity is concentrated, the current
inside the crew compartment tends to be very high.
by the fact that the wind- The situation is aggravated
shields, unlike other regions where the field might have
diffuse through the metal surfaces, act as large aper-
tures and so allow the internal magnetic flux to build
to its peak values very rapidly.
Fig. 16.3 Current flow along windshield poets.
External current (a) flow
magnetic (b) Internal fields
423