as an endorsement of should not be taken may discussion bipolar transistors, PNPN devices and such as
have application as surge arresters, they will not be any one product. For purposes of design, the manu-
here. facturers literature should be consulted. covered
devices which basically polarized are diodes Zener
exhibit an avalanche breakdown when the applied volt- Reverse standoff voltage: This specifies the voltage
age in the reverse bias direction exceeds the device'σ below which leakage current is negligible and thus cor-
specified breakdown, or Zener voltage of the device, responds to the leakage region discussed for metal ox-
Diodes intended for regulation of voltage can be used ide devices. One difference is that the quantity cited
to suppress surge voltages, but diodes specially fab- is α dc voltage, unlike MOV devices that wvould most
ricated for surge suppression are better. These have likely be rated in terms of V-rms for sinewave excita-
bigger silicon junctions and more massive end caps to tion.
better dissipate heat. Some surge suppression diodes
voltage developed are intended only for protection against surges of one Breakdown voltage: This is the
polarity and act as conventional forward biased diodes in response to α test current, usually 1 mA dc, as is
in the other direction. Others are intended for dual common with MOV devices.
back- connected diodes two effectiyely are and polarity
to-back. Clamping voltage and peak pulse current: The allow-
are stated diodes and MOVs surges for protective switch to α able the diode does not The voltage across
low value when conducting, but remains at the Zener somewhat differently. Diodes are specified in terms of
voltage. This characteristic accounts for their abil- α clamping voltage at α specified current, the product
ity to cease conduction when the voltage falls below of Vc, and Ipp yielding the peak power instantaneous
the Zener level, but it has α disadvantage thermally. of 1500 watts for which the devices are rated. MOVs
During conduction, the power absorbed by the diode are rated in terms of energy. For both totae deposited
is the product of the current through the diode and protective diodes and MOVs the specified current wave
the voltage across the diode. The power absorbed for has the 10 ξ 1000 ps wavesh•,pe specified in [17.4],
constant current, thus, is directly proportional to the Instantaneous powers higher than 1500 watts may
diode voltage, be dissipated if the duration of the surge current is
Partially offsetting this disadvantage, however, is less than 1 ms. Other product lines have higher power
the phenomenon that surge energy absorbed in the ratings.
diode is energy that cannot be reflected back into the When conducting, the voltage and current of α
system to cause trouble elsewhere, protective diode are related in the same manner as
with MOVs;
Depletion layer: In diodes, the voltage drop takes I (17.3) kV* =
place across the narrow depletion layer andi the mass
available for absorption of energy is thus very small. The exponent α for protective diodes is in the range
Heat must be conducted into the metal end caps and 100 -- 500, higher than the comparable figure for
then dissipated through the leads of the diode. Energy MOVW. The clamping voltage for protective diodes
handling capability of diodes is thus intrinsically less is thus more nearly constant with surge current than
than that of spark gaps and metal oxide varistors. As for MOVs.
α result, diode networks will not be the preferable pro-
tective device where extremely high transient current Capacitance: Surge suppression diodes have α high
or energy is predicted. For most lightning hardening capacitance, several hundred pF to several nF, values
applications in aircraft, this is not α serious limitation, on the same order as MOVs of comparable current and
since the induced surge current levels are in the to energy ratings. I
100 Α range at those locations where surge suppression
diodes are most likely to be used. Speed of Since the response: non-linear action of pro-
thin depletion takes place in the very tective diodes
Ratings Zener-typs diodes: of Ratings of Zener- region, there is little dependence of clamped voltage
type protective devices follow α pattern similar to that on waveshape of surge current. Theoretical response
discussed for metal oxide devices. The discussion that times of 5 I - picoseconds (1 -5 ξ 10-12 seconds) have
follows will be illustrated by reference to General Semi- been cited, but such times have little meaning since
φ17.5]. conductor diodes Table 17.3 refers to α line the performance of protective diodes is governed by
of 1500 watt bipolar devices in α hermetically inductace DO-13 of leads just as with MOVs. Excessive lead
sealed package. Similar devices are available from length degrades the performance of any protective de-
other sources and, as with metal oxide varistors, the vice.
449