Chapter 17
CIRCUIT DESIGN
17.1 Introduction
This chapter deals on α circuit level with some still be taken to ensure that lightning induced voltages
of the factors involved in minimizing damage and up- on the power circuits are controlled within acceptable
set of avionic equipment and will offer, where possible, limits, possibly with the aid of voltage limiting devices,
examples of good and bad practice. Two subjects are as discussed in §17.4.
treated in detail; surge protective devices and compo- On aircraft fabricated with poorly conducting
nent damage analysis. composite materials, power return through the air-
In general, practices good for control of lightning frame should be avoided. Α separate return wire
indirect effects and for control of steady state elec- should be used.
tromagnetic interference (EMI/EMC) are similar and
what is good for one is good for the other. There are Single ended transmission: If single ended transmis-
conflicts, however, some more apparent than real, and sion over α shielded wire is used, with the shield used
it does not necessarily follow that α design proven to as α return path, Fig. 17.2, any noise current flow-
be satisfactory for control of steady state EMI, or that ing in the shield will produce α voltage that adds to
meets other standards for will EMC be satisfactory for the signal voltage. Having the shield grounded at each
control of lightning indirect effects, end allows noise currents to flow and it is for this rea,
son that wire sh!elds are often grounded at only one
17.2 Signal Transmission end. Lightning current in the structure of the aircraft
would be one source of noise current and could result
Most problems involving indirect effects originate in large voltages being coupled into the signal circuit
with the coupling of lightning energy into the wiring in the event of α lightning flash.
of the aircraft with direct induction into the cases of
LRUs running α far distant second. Proper choices
"C Α prob- such eliminate help transmission signal about
lems. Basic considerations about circuit design and
signal transmission are shown in Figs. 17.1 - 17.7. (α)
as Aircraft α C return: signal First, as shown on Fig. KR
17.1, signal circuits should avoid the use of the aircraft
structure as α return path. If the structure is used as
α return path, the resistively generated voltage rises
will be included in the path between transmitting and
Α-
receiving devices.
( β ) VlsAR
Fig, 17.2 Single ended transmission. MUMS
(α) Generation of error voltage
(β) Generation of common mode voltage
Fig. 17.1 Structural IR voltage.
Grounding the shield at only one end, however,
Power circuits frequently use the airframe as α re- does not solve all the lightning problems because
appear turn path. With metal aircraft, experience has shown excessive voltnge can still between the un-
to be generally satisfactory, but provisions should grounded end of the shield and *thiu the adjacent ground
437