The cathode spots will rapidly move about and if
arc is free to move there will be little damage to
surface of the cathode. Loca'ized melting and boil-
ing may occur, but the cathode spots will move away
before the surface as α whole is noticeably damaged.
Lightning flashes sweeping across the surface of bare
aluminum surfaces of aircraft frequently produce only
α mottled blemish on the surface. However, if the arc
is constrained to stay in one point then the heating
continues in that area and more intense damage may
occur. Surface coatings, even α thin film of paint, may
be enough to prevent the arc from moving freely.
discussing taken in be should Care "resistance": Arc
the "resistance" of an arc; since it is α quantity that
ally only applies for α particular current and for steady
state conditions. Arc voltage as α function of current
the more useful quantity. As regards aircraft, arc volt-
age is important in three main contexts; the amount
of damage done to α surface contacted by an arc, the
length of arc which may be swept across an insulating
surface before the voltage becomes sufficient to punc-
ture the insulation, and in the design of laboratory
equipment with which to simulate lightning effects. All
of these are discussed in more detail in later chapters.
An example of the voltage across an arc burning
in air is shown on Fig. 1.31. In this particular case the
temperature high the as with time fluctuated voltage
carried the arc into the air and the are length changed,.λ
Similar variations are noted if the conditions at the
electrodes change, as during tests where the arc burns
away the surface of the object under test.
Investigations of arc voltage with currents such as
found in lightning flashes, several tens of thousands of
amperes in the return stroke or several hundreds
amperes in the continuing current phase, have mostly
been concerned with the performance of power circuit
switching devices and are of limited value in analysis
of effects of lightning on aircraft. Most investigations
of the voltage across an arc in air, the condition
most importance regarding aircraft, were made many
years ago with arc currents on the order of α few am-
peres or at most α few tens of anmperes. They (1.16]
show the total voltage across an arc of fixed length to
decrease with current and be given approximately by
an equation of the form
Β
. (1.7) ε =Α +
8
The constant ν seems to be α linear function of the
absolute boiling temperature Τ of the anode,
 4 10 (1.8) ν = 2.62 Τ. Ξ 0

the and ranges from about 0.5 to 1.5. For nitrogen at at-
the mospheric pressure the constant of Eq. Α 1.7 is about
51 and Β about 84.
The characteristic curve relating arc voltage to
arc current thus has the general shape shown in Fig.
1.32. Part of the voltage, on the order of 20 - 40 volts,
is due to the cathode and anode drops and the rest is
the voltage across the arc column. For long arcs in air,
*up to 50 cm, iron electrodes and for currents of α few
amperes, the arc voltage is given by
,= C)Ξ. Α + (Β + (1.9)
62, = 11.4 Α = re- where ξ is the arc length in cm. and Β
and = 32.6. The quantity Α would account C for
is the effects at the electrodes and the vapor near the
electrodes. The rest of the expression accounts for
the arc in the air and suggests that the voltage along
α freely burning arc would be on the order of 10 -
15 volts/cm. For higher currents Eq. 1.9 probably
underestimates the arc voltage. Fig. 1.31 suggests the
voltage would be about 25 volts/cm for arcs carrying
several hundreds of amperes.
-
- 300 Α -- " . --
... ...
-
(α) Α.............. .H..TIRI
.............. ..
of ... ... ....
0 . - -
715 V ..-.. . .
-. -
." -
of . . .'-..
-
, , . .
I'
- ,. .... . .... .... ....... .•. .. . .•. ..- . .
0 sec 0 1 -
Fig. 1.31 Voltage and current of α 7 inch gap
burning in air.
(α) Current
(β) Voltage
17