pump or pressurized fuel line can extend the flamma-
bility envelopes of Figs. 7.2 and 7.3 to the left into 20
though even Thus, temperatures. of colder the region
- Figs. τ Α 7.2 and 7.3 indicate that the vapor-air mixture - -
" in the tanks of an aircraft fueled with Jet Α would be 12 et Α τ" \ 9! too 1 lean 4 Μ to support combustion for the conditions un-
der which most lightning strikes occur, there can be
-
of so, since agitation this is always assurance that • no 2
the fuel may occur in flight.
-40 -80 -80 -20 20 40 0 60 80 100
Temperature! C 00 four inch -16
diam. glass -- 20 I \rN
α 40. .2 tube/high
100% negur Jet Α 16
- -100% - Jet Α 1% Jet Β so.ε
Β- 2Je gs 12..
-α -- ,_-- Μ htning . to.
0Tv.10
9 -80 -0 -40 -20 0 20 40 60 60 100 -80
Temperature' C Temperature *C
Fig. 7.2 Flammability limits for typical aircraft fuels Fig. 7.3 Flammability envelope of the fuel blend 85%
as α function of altitude and temperature. Jet Α/15% Jet Β, and altitude/temperature
strikes. lightning most envelope enclosing
The volatility of each of the above fuels is related
inerting: to the vapor pressure of the fuel. Fuels with higher va- Α number of methods have been devel-
por pressures, such as JP-4, will release sufficient va- oped to inert the ullage in aircraft fuel tanks to keep
por at lower temperatures to reach α flammable mix- flames from enlarging and spreading even if there were
ture, thus lowering the flammability envelope. Fuels α source of ignition. These include filling the fuel tank
with lower vapor pressures, such as JP-5, must be at α ullage with non-flammable gases, such as nitrogen or
higher temperature to release sufficient vapor to form carbon dioxide.
an ignitable mixture.
Extinguishing: Extinguishing involves detecting α
Mixing of fuels: There are important factors which flame and rapidly filling the tank with some gas (ie.
may alter the flammability limits of the vapor inside halogen) that extinguishes the flame.
Foaming: an aircraft fuel tank from those shown in Fig. 7.2. The use of reticulated foam in fuel tanks
however. One of these is the mixing of one type of
has been front α flame of propagation the prevent to exam- for shows, [7.41 7.3 Fig. another, with fuel
The applications. some in successful very to be shown of Nestor by determined limits the flammability ple,
3% than less displace and weight very little add foams Β fu- Jet and 15% Jet Α 85% of comprised mixture α
the slows and cools The foam tank. in the fuel of the aircraft if the occurred have might mixture α els. Such
Unfortunately, to die. it causing the flame of spead refueled and later Jet Β with been fueled originally had
sufficient charges generate static the foams some of resulting of the envelope flammability Jet Α. The with
oc- an ignition such time Each vapors. fuel to ignite tanks if the than be lower would the tank in mixture
many hours of After is lost. of the foam curs, some the lowered As such, Jet Α fuel. contained 100% had
flight, the foam will have burned away to the extent envelope encompasses the altitudes and temperatures
Α conduc- protection. longer provide it may no that have occurred. to aircraft strikes most lightning wherev
tive foam has been developed (CSF-204 beige) which
Agitation: Agitation is another way that the fiamma- significantly reduces the tendency for internally gen-
bility envelopes might be altered from those shown in erated sparks. Non-conductive foams (Type II yellow
Fig. 7.2, for the latter are valid only when the mix- and Type IV, blue) both have been shown to generate
ture is stabilized. Agitation of fuel or spray from α internal static sparks 17.51.
173