those flames This system effectively suppressed
ft/σ) or traveled slowly enough, 30 rn/σ (100 which
time ms) to react, but did (18 less, to give the system
past the surge tank not stop flames which had gone
the the extinguishant was released. In by the time
extin- might still have latter case, the extinguishant
but the flame front, fire in the surge tank, guished the
to the interconnecting vent lines on its way through
of the of the reach passed out tanks, would have fuel
extinguishant.
also in- Atlantic Research-LTRI program The
plasma propagation into an investigation of arc cluded
because of in- the vent line, which was inconclusive
difficulties, strumentation
on the prefor- of ice formation effect ice: The of Effect
[7.18], re- was also considered mance of α flame arrester
icing would unacceptable that in the conclusion sulting
of atmospheric the worst combination occur only when
conclusion was existed. This and flight conditions
flight only and should be verified by based, on analysis
tests.
Effects Velocity Airflow 7.3.2
outlet vent α of lip the to attachment Lightning
be possible in the Atlantic Research- was assumed to
programs reviewed in the preced- LTRI and Lockheed
ing paragraphs. No attempt, however, was made in ei-
whether or not this phenom- program to establish ther
an aircraft in flight or, if it could, enon could occur to
Neither the Elkton Β-707 aircraft [7.14], how often.
to have been struck by nor any other aircraft known
lightning at- lightning, has shown physical evidence of
to α vent outlet. The outlet in the tachment directly
tip. is not located Β-707, while located near the wing
of the wing where lightning attachments at the very tip
flush is therefore improbable that occur most often. It
Β-707, will receive vents, such as those on the mounted
direct strikes.
to whether α lightning as then arises The question
from another vent outlet across the sweep flash could
to this question the effluent. Answers point and ignite
who undertook were sought by Newman and others
1966 and 1967. [7.19] during program an experimental
Simulated lightning strikes were delivered to α Β-707
to learn more about these wing tip and vent assembly
to which air flowing possibilities, ae well as the degree
speeds would make ignition unlikely, past at realistic
to the outlet. even if an arc did attach
were ob- ignitions [7.10, 7.15], earlier programs In
vent outlets the time when of the 100% nearly tained
of that ignition Newman found still air, but were in
by α 48 kA, propane-air mixture 1.5 stoichiometric α
2 once in 34 only strike occurred *σ direct 106 Α ξ 0.009

0
airflow over the with α 90 knot (46 μ/σ, 150 ft/σ) shots
during 200 shots in α 200 knot outlet, and not at all
of longer 330 ft/σ) airflow. When strokes (100 μ/σ,
90 swept across the vent outlet by the duration were
was ignited times out 11 knot windstream, the effluent
to 200 when the airflow was increased of 15 tests, but
tests. occurred in 46 knots, only 2 ignitions
tests were performed un- Nearly all of Newman'σ
was condition, which effluent the most vulnerable der
of the vent out- flow out μ/σ (5 ft/σ) 1.5 found to be α
when an aircraft is climbing. let such as might exist
strikes than half of all reported lightning Since more
in level flight or de- when the aircraft is either occur
climb at well over 90 scending and since most aircraft
from α di- the probability of an in-flight ignition knots,
Newman'σ be remote. outlet must α vent strike to rect
sweeping showed that α flash however, investigation,
(2 α greater chance might have vent outlet across the
even under climb condi- an effluent, in 46) of igniting
This speed of 250 knots. at the more realistic tions
the importance of locating vent result demonstiates
from both direct strike and swept flash outlets away
zones cn the airciaft.
7.3.3 Explosive Ignitions
his just described, Newman and in the program
[7.20] in which α strike to colleagues conducted α test
the vent outlet produced indications of unusually high
of the vent and severe deformation flame velocities
than normal. outlet, indicating much higher pressures
program in which They cite α similar case in another
ft/σ) were traveling in excess of 300 μ/σ (1000 flames
The implication of these findings actually measured.
tank protec- is serious because an arrester or surge
of extinguishing the lower velocity tion system capable
flames traveling as fast flames may not be able to stop
as 300 μ/σ.
attempted to study: Kester and others [7.21] Kester'σ
reproduce such speeds in α 14 cm (5.5 in) simulated
higher velocities measure flame but did not vent tube,
when severe, even in this system, μ/σ (65 ft/σ) than 20
2 applied. These strokes were kA, 1.0 ξ 101 Α .σ 180
the comparable to those measured in velocities were
of 1964. Research-LTRI program Atlantic
Kester and his colleagues also reported one ex-
195 kA was deliv- plosive ignition when α stroke of
195 outlet. It was found that the ered to the vent
α voltage in instru- kA stroke current had induced
to spark over the insu- ment wiring sufficiently high
the vent pressure probes inside several lation around
were surge tank of the parts outlet and vent line. The
6.4 made of they were even though deformed, badly
usual much higher than steel. Again, mm (0.25 in.)
indirated. pressures were
178