Ways to reduce dwell time: The foregoing discussion
makes clear the importance of lightning arc dwell time
in establishing whether or not ignition resulting from
strike to α skin is likely to occur. Dwell time is perhaps
the only lightning characteristic over which the
gral fuel tank designer has any control. The objectives,
of course, should be to minimize dwell time at any
spot and to spread the arc attachment among many
different spots. Α bare metal external finish will
achieve these aims, since most paints and other coat-
ings aft to concentrate the attachment at more widely
separated points for correspondingly longer times
does α bare surface,
If paint must be used, lightning dwell times
be reduced by making the paint partially conductive,
Robb and others [7.42] have demonstrated that
minum powder is effective in increasing the conduc-
tivity of polyurethane paints, thereby increasing
ability of the are to reattach to new points as the
craft surface moves beneath the arc. Since no para-
metric data relating dwell time to amount of additive
is available, it is advisable to make laboratory deter-
minations of the degree of improvement afforded
particular combinations.
McClenahan and Plumer (7.44] have shown that
small diameter metal wires intermingled with carbon
yarns in CFC skcins act to disperse the electric
and reduce damage at attachment points. This effect,
which has been termed arc in §6.2.1, root dispersion
is due to intensification of the electric field and punc-
ture of non-conductive finishes above the wires. The
extent to which this treatment shortens swept flash
dwell times has not been evaluated.
7.5.2 Cumuat Auplituda
The high amplitude return strokes of the lightning
flash are too short in duration to deliver appreciable
charge and cause significant melting metal -. )φ skin ma-
terials. Most of the charge in α flash is delivered
continuing currents of several hundred amperes and
by intermediate currents of several kiloamperes.
of swept analyses stroke effects, emphasis should be
placed on the intermediate and continuing currents,
Components Β and because thewe can deliver large C.
amounts of charge.
There is. of course, α time dependency. as was
shown in Fig. 7.13. Currents of 200 - 300 Α will melt
through at lower emlomb levels than either higher or
lower currents, This is relatd to the current density
in the arc channel. The density. Α/ml, is limited
at higher currents, the diameter of the arc channel ex-
panda. This can result in multiple arc roots which
spread out the current, rather than leaving it concen-
trated at α single point. This reduces the damage.

practical terms, 300 amperes for 10 milliseconds will
produce more damage that 3000 amperes for 1 millisec-
α ond, even though the charge transferred, 3 coulombs,
is the same in either case.
inte- For example, for design and tests of swept flash
effects, §4.1.2.2 of [7.281 specifies that current corn-
one ponents and Δ should be applied in Zone C. Β, 2Α.
with Δ applied first, since it is α restrike current which
best would be expected to create α new dwell point. Corn-
ponents Β and C are then applied for whatever dwell
time is expected, or for 50 ms if the dwvell time has not
than been determined from swept flash tests or is otherwise
unknown. This current is shown in Fig. 7.16. If α dwell
may time of less than 5 ms is expected, an average current
of 2 kA should be applied for the actual dwell time
alu- only. It should be noted that even though the stan-
dard specifies that testing be conducted in this man-
the ner, nature is not restricted to the test environment
air- and can deliver currents in any sequence. If Compo-
nent C applied for the entire dwell time is more sevece
than α combination of Component Β and C, thea that
threat must be considered.
by
0 Δ IOOkA
1000] Β Av 2 - 10 Α -α in 5μ
arc 0- delivering 0.4 Α 'σ/ms 4Α
1000 o10
oo100.
0 0 51 IS 15 0 25 30 35 40 45 50
time - Milliseconds
Fig. 7.16 Current and charge expected at α
Zone 2Α dwell point.
Drawn with straight lines only for purposes
of explanation
by
In
The environment for Zone JA includes current
components Α and Β, but no portion of component
C. Component Α applies α higher action integral and
more intense shock wave, which can puncture unpro.
tected CFC and some thin metal skins, as described
in Chapter 6. Meltthrough of metal skills, howe'ver,
is due primarily to charge transfer from intermediate
and continuing currents. Since many fuel tank skins
so are, in fact, within Zones lA and 2Α. they should be
detigned to tolerate the most damaging components
of each, that is, stroke current component Α combined
with components Β and the portion of that would C
In be applicable in Zone 2.4.
188