The mutual inductance between two filaments of For all practical cases there are no end effects and the
any arbitrary orientation is calculable and while the inductance is directly proportional to length.
expressions are too long to include here they can be If there were two conductors at α spacing Σ, both
found in the literature [9.2, 9.3]. surrounded by α coaxial return path, Fig. 9.14(β) and
While the inductance of an isolated conductor is the radius of the coaxial return path large compared
an important. concept it must be used with care since to Σ, the mutual inductance would be:
an isolated conductor cannot actually carry current.
Current can flow only if the conductor is part of α 2 = ξ 10- In[2ρ2] (9.62) Λ12 Hm.
larger circuit and so the inductance of an isolated con- Σ
ductor should then be viewed as part of α larger prob- 2ρ,
lem, one in which the self and mutual inductances must
together. considered be
I go or the external give only formulae of these All
high frequency inductance. At low frequencies there (α)
will also be magnetic fields within the conductor, α return
subject treated in later α, section.
Σ transient Under inductance: of dependence Time
conditions one must also consider the retardation ef-2ρ_
fects associated with the finite velocity of propagation go #.
of an electromagnetic field, since if α current is sud-
(β) # denly applied to α conductor, the field will not initially Α2
extend to infinity. Instead it will propagate away from - -
return amount total The light. of speed the at conductor the
of magnetic flux established in the space around the Fig. 9.14 Coaxial conductors.
conductor will vary with time, becoming larger with (α) Single conductor
time as the fields propagate farther from the conduc- (β) Parallel conductors
tor. The implication is that the inductance of α con-
ductor will be less for short duration transients or high Conductor pairs: Two parallel conductors can also
frequencies than it will be for long duration transients be connected as α "go-return" pair. Two connections
or low frequencies. In an engineering sense the effect is are possible, the connection in which current goes on
of more importance for long conductors than for short one conductor and returns on the other, Fig. 9.15(α),
conductors. In 1ius α field will propagate 300 μ. For being the most common geometry. The configuration
α conductor one meter long jis might be considered 1 of Fig. (9.15(β) is impractical for straight conductors
as "dc" conditions, but that would not be the case for since the magnetic field of the connecting leads would
α conductor 1000 meters long. For aircraft analyses influence the result, but it is practical for conductors
frequency dependence of external inductance because bent into α circle since that is the geometry of α helical
of retardation effects would not normally be α factor coil.
to consider since the various coaiductors of necessity The inductance of the pair involves four conduc-
azv close together. tore; the two self inductances and the two mutual in-
ductances:
Coaxial conductors: Most commonly inductance
(9.63) + + (Λ In α coaxial "go-rtturn" circuit. evaluated for α is Λ ). (Λ + Λ ) LT = 32 2 1 11 12
system the center conductor (the "go" conductor) is
surrounded by α concentric "retum"conductor, Fig. If the conductors are about the same diameter Λ
12 are the conductors even if are nearly equal, and Λ21 the found by evaluating inductance is and the 9.14(α),
equal will be Lit and Also, close together. fairly The cur- ρ2. ρ, and the limits between field intensity Λ22
same. Thus: are the if the diameters not path does return on the cylindrical flowing rent
need to be considered sitice it does not produce any
(9.64) + 2(Λ situa- in any practical field. Since Λ ) internal magnetic LT = 11 12
tion #he length is long compared to the diameter of
Evaluating the individual Eq. 9.63 both the inner and outer conductors the field may be inductances in
evaluated from Eq. 9.59. gives:
(Lr)
 In H + 1] (9.φ6) - 4 ξ1-1[In H/μ (9.61) = 2 ξ 10- ln(!!2 Lr Lit = -
255