Multiple The recommended burst; waveform consists
of repetitive component H waveforms in 24 sets of
pulses each, distributed over α period of up to
seconds, as shown in Fig. 5.6. The minimum time
between individual component H pulses within α burst
is 10 pss and the maximum is 50 14σ. The 24 bursts
are distributed over α period of 2 sec according to
following constraints:
- The minimum time between subsequent strokes
10 Ms.
strokes subsequent between time maximum - The
ms. is 200
kA 10
__
(α) One burst is 20 pulses distributed
over millisec I ond.
Hzone kA 10
Λ
dtu
2 seconds. bursts distributed over four β) Twenty
10 kA
H SComponent
Component_
_ _ _
(χ) ,•. 3 4 5 1 2
Fig. 5.6 Multiple burst waveform.
(α) Overall waveform
(β) Pattern of pulses in α burst
(χ) Waveform of an individual pulse
Component H represents α high rate of rise pulse
whose amplitude and time duration are much less than
those of α return stroke. Such pulses have been found
to occur randomly throughout α lightning flash, in-
terspersed with the other current components. While
not likely to cause physical damage to the aircraft
electronic components, the random and repetitive na-
ture of these pulses may cause interference or upset to
certain systems.

The multiple stroke and multiple burst environ-
20 ments are not intended to be applied to the full vehicle
two in α test. The multiple stroke and burst internal envi-
ronment may be determined by testing using α single
component to obtain the transfer function of interest,
or to obtain the actual transient response level. The
the independent responses should then be repeated and
spaced as described in Figs. 5.5 and 5.6 for upset as-
sessment. It should then be shown by analysis or test
is that, by virtue of system design, architecture, hard-
ware or software measures, there is sufficient immunity
environment. this system from the of recovery or
the idealized of parameters of the summary Α
lightning current waveforms is given in Table 5.3.
Current Components: Current of Application Zone
components Α, and H and the multiple- Β, C, Δ
stroke and multiple burst waveforms may be utilized
for analyses or test purposes, or for combinations
thereof. The appropriate current component(σ) for
each zone of the aircraft are shown in Table 5.2. When
the area of interest includes more than one zone, the
protection assessment shall be performed utilizing the
environment. severe most the with zones or Zoning is used to determine the current path(σ)
through the aircraft and in locating the particular
severe threat to represent(σ) the most path(σ) which
most For investigation. under system or structure the
well as 3 Zone in located is airframe the applications,
2Α, or Zone 1Α, other zones (ι.ε. more of the as one or
2Β). The current components from Table 5.5 are then
applied together with the multiple stroke and multiple
burst environments to assess the potential lightning
verify and system, or structure aircraft the on effects
adequacy of protection designs.
Test Waveforms: The idealized severe waveforms in
Section 1 are appropriate for analysis, but they are
sometimes difficult to apply to full scale components
or vehicles in α test program. This is because it may
become prohibitively costly to develop and operate
simulators which can deliver the severe environments,
especially to large vehicles such as transport aircraft.
Therefore, the approach for testing will frequently in-
volve the use of waveforms other than the idealized
waveforms of Figs. 5.3 and 5.4. However, these al-
ternate waveforms must have the property that test
results can be readily extrapolated or scaled to those
or which would be obtained if the vehicle were tested with
the idealized waveforms. Additional discussion of test
waveforms and methods is found in Chapters 6, 7 and
15.
102