3.15(b). in Fig. shown as out, die will branches other
aircraft the through flow will currents substantial No
will be aircraft to the any damage and such a case, in
of a downward-branching photograph A still slight.
in shown is channel main of the completion after flash
the in are evident branches dying Several 3.16. Fig.
photograph.
(a)
(b)
Fig 3.14 Stepped leader attachment,
(a) Leader approaching aircraft
Attachment and continued (b)
propagation
" e
(a)"
M
Fig. 3.15 Return stroke paths.
(a) Return stroke through aircraft
aircraft through stroke No return (b)

"Fig. flash. lightning branching Downward 3.16
3.4.3 Triggered Lightning Effects
A question often asked is "If an aircraft cannot
produce a lightning flash from its own stored charge,
way the one?" Stated another can it trigger a natural
have oc- lightning flash "Would the question might be
curred if the aircraft were not present?" A secondary
question would be "Even if aircraft do triggc. light-
which the criteria to on be an impact would there ning,
aircraft of mechanism The be designed?" must aircraft
triggering lightning is discussed in depth in Section 3.7,
but some preliminary discussion is in order.
There is clear evidence that lightning flashes can
be triggered by research aircraft that are intention-
to observe lightning phenomena, ally flown into clouds
but it is not clear whether aircraft in normal service
trigger lightning very often. The following factors sug-
gest that most flashes which are encountered (by other
than research aircraft) are not the result of the aircraft
triggering the flash.
1. Aircraft often fly through electrified regions with-
out being struck, even though lightning flashes are
observed nearby.
2. The stepped leader must begin from a charge
source capable of furnishing it with several cou-
lombs of charge. Thus the potential (voltage) of
this center, and the surrounding field intensity,
would seem to be much greater than that about
an aircraft, leaving the implication that, unless
the aircraft is very close to the charge center, it
can have little influence on the surrounding field
initiation. of leader the process or on
52