on the right wing. This required is to determine the electric breakdown occurred dinate axes and the fourth
wing to wing. the aircraft. These may the ambient field to be oriented field produced by charge on
be combined to give the total field. The basic solu-
720 equation, Poisson'σ solving by calculated can be tions
differ- modifications, the finite but with some slight Q ι
can also be used to yield the desired ence equations
static solution. The latter approach is used here.
the non- The input parameters for Input parameters:
linear model are: the relative air density (α function 0 - -[I.Α
of altitude), water vapor content of the ambient air,
the aircraft. charge on the net field, and the ambient
parameters completely nonlinear modeling, these For
lightning environment. define the
To get α static solution for α given initial ambient -520
are used (α)0 .76 field, equivalent sources on α Huygens' surface us
along one of the volt/meter of one α field to obtain
coordinate axes. Numerically, the charges are assumed 920
an oscillating causes This appear instantaneously. to
α run until code is so the and aircraft of the response
steady state is reached.
Examples of Calculations 10.9.3
If one can find α set of initial conditions that V
α response that matches measured data for produce
believe α given lightning event, then there is reason to
that the ambient environment assumed for the calcu-
-840 to rise that gave conditions to the similar was lations
.76 us nonlinear character of 0 (β) the actual event. Because of the
(β study method, it is not possible to make α simple the
scaling of calculated results to measured results and Fig. 10.30 Calculated and measured response of
so come up with α better estimate of the initial condi- F-106Β to triggered lightning
longitudinal Β-dot sensor. just make α comparison between the tions. One must
calculated for α specific set of conditions and (α) Calculated response
ξ - 2 V/μ ambient electric field 10 produced by the actual event. the response
- oriented nose to tail
net charge 1.35 mC - are F-108Β for the comparisons of F-106Β: Examples
(β) Measured - Flight 82-038, Run 7 shown in Figs. 10.30 through 10.33. Of particular
the comparisons is the double pulse charac- interest in
10.34 through 10.37 show calculated and in Figs. 10.30, 10.31 and 10.33. Thiscorre- Figs. ter shown
These were calcu- different places, but measured results for the CV-580. sponds to an air breakdown at two
lated for an ambient field of 50 kV/μ, net charge of at different times. This is the same type of phenome-
of 0.5. events. 1.35pC on the aircraft and α relative air density non observed during actual triggered lightning
good, about the same quality initial breakdown The agreement is quite The first pulse corresponds to the
and as for the F-106Β. (usually at the nose boom) the second pulse oc-
and onto the aircraft flows as charge curs elsewhere
Aircraft 10.10 raises the electric field strength elsewhere. resonances
CV- the for obtained been also have Results C-580:
en- conductor on α traveling Waves Waves: 580 Traveling such to define [10.32) study limited Α response.
inductance the by given surge impedance α counter dis- previously the strike for was done an environment
of the conductor, and capacitance attached strike this that It is known in §10.8. cussed
α trig- most probably it was and that wing the right to
(10.58) gered flash. With this information, the ambient field -
so thatvC adjusted were aircraft on the charge the and
296