. •cations.
(α)
(β)
-"..WT4AL~u UN
(χ) .
•the 4
. --
(δ) [''
,.ouo _φ π,.ι.. ST_
(ε) ..... . (ε)
1 Λ . 1
Fig. 8.1 Steps in controlling indirect effects.
(α) Determining the external environment
(β) Determining the internal environment
(χ) Determining the response of cables
(δ) Determining the response of terminal
equipment
(ε) Conducting verification tests
Loose coupling: The stages in the analysis can be
separated because the aircraft and the wiring in it are
only loosely coupled; meaning only that lightning af-
fects the electrical wiring, but that the exact response
of the wiring has no practical reverse effect on the am-
plitude or waveshape of the lightning current. There
are situations where this may not be completely true
and these are discussed in Chapter 10.
Status standards of and specifications: The arts of
analysis and control of indirect effects are still evolv-
ing. Accordingly, the analytical procedures to be de-
scribed are not as simple or as well developed as might
be desired. Test practices, test procedures and test
specifications likewise are still evolving. One result
of this is that specifications for design and test are
frequently incomplete, or stated in such α way as to
force unnecessary or overly expensive design and test
practices. Some of them neglect important aspects of
lightning interactions with α result that systems may
be put into practice without real lightning problems
having been addressed. Some examples of these will
be given in later chapters, along with discussions of

good and bad points of typical standards and specifi-
8.4 Lightning vs Nuclear EMP
The art of analysis of lightning interactions has
into NEMP and protective influenced by research been
measures and test techniques have likewise been influ-
have certain NEMP. Lightning and NEMP enced by
similarities in their effects, but there are differences
as well. Many of the practices that might be adopted
for control of effects would also be good for NEMP
control of lightning indirect effects (and visa versa)
but it should not be assumed that the practices are
same. Certainly it should not be assumed that α
design proven satisfactory for one phenomenon would
necessarily be satisfactory for the other phenomenon.
Some of the similarities and differences are discussed
below and in the literature [8.1, 8.2].
NEMP: Ideally, can be considered as α phe- NEMP
nomenon to which an aircraft will never actually be
subjected.
If it should occur, it would consist of α single elec-
tromagnetic field pulse, or possibly several pulses if
reflections are counted. The pulses would be of short
duration (about 1 microsecond would ), propagate in
free space and would engulf an aircraft that is also in
free space. When the pulses contact the aircraft they
will be partially reflected and scattered with the re-
suit that there will be α certain electromagnetic field
developed at the surface of the aircraft. These surface
electromagnetic fields will be associated with currents
on the aircraft and the currents would probably prop-
agate back and forth, at α frequency determined by
the size of the aircraft structure.
The surface currents, however, would be best
thouglhit of as α response to the electromagnetic field;"
that is, the field is produced first and it is the forcing
function that causes the surface currents. It is logical,
therefore, to base analyses on the response of NEMP
the aircraft to electromagnetic fields. The most impor-
tant response involves how much of the external field
couples to the interior of the aircraft, α subject that is
naturally addressed in terms of shielding effectiveness
of the aircraft.
Lightning: Lightning to an aircraft is also α rare event,
but does in fact occur sufficiently often that it should
be regarded as something that sooner or later is al-
most certain to occur, It would differ from α NEMP
event in that it is of longer duration (perhaps on the
order of α second), involves many pulses in rapid suc-
cession, some of amplitude much higher than induced
by and involves α direct contact between the NEMP
225