are ions positive more immobile and the slower
electrons The 1.5(β). in Fig. as shown behind,
oxygen, ions, usually" to neutral attach mediately
negative ions. form
all on depends gas in the field electric The
and the electrode is on that the charge charge,
electrode. In the around space in the is that charge
field electric the ions the positive beyond the space
charge the negative by produced of that sum the
space charge in the and the positive the electrode
electric the is that result The electrode. to the jacent
reduced ions is the positive beyond space in the field
ions positive the until stops process ionization the and
the negative cathode and the into been swept have
and into cathode the away from moved been ions have
by being collected possibly space, surrounding the
if it is nearby. anode
away, 1.5(χ), have been swept After the charges
but if the electric field at the process may repeat,
is not sufficient of positive ions tip of the cloud
streamers will ionizing collisions the cause further
exists gap. This condition into the extend further
is localized, fields, those in which the stress divergent
such as the sharp pointed electrode of Fig. 1.6(α).
that between the In α uniform field, such as
Fig. 1.6(β), whenever shown on flat electrodes
electric field at the electrode reaches α critical gradi-
the way exist all gradient will critical ent, the same
will not α result the corona the gap. As across
main localized, but will invariably grow and lead
complete breakdown.
.Current I. I
electrode
• λ
electric field
lines
(α)
: tIIII [ ] I
\ ρ /
(..
uniform (α) and 1.6 Divergent Fig.
fields. electric (β)

initiated which corona is at gradient critical The left
the though level conditions, kV/cm at sea 30 is about im-
size physical the somewhat on depend does gradient and
the gas rarified electrodes. In α more the of shape and
the kV /cm, 30 than be lower wou'λ critical gradient the
Refer- gas. of the the density being factor governing the
temperature) and (pressure density relating data ence
At [1.7). handbooks available in standard is altitude is to
be would critical gradient ft. the of 10 000 altitude an on
22 kV/μ. about ad-
the at emitted is light because visible is Corona
and the bombarded ions are as discharge of the tip
α higher energy to the impacted atoms raise collisions
to their revert may atoms the excited Later, state.
excess do, the as they and state energy lower normal
of some waves, as electromagnetic is radiated energy the
and appear- band the visible occurring in the radiation
as soon as the bombard- The light ceases ing as light.
the ment stops and the charged ions are swept away. The
that is The visible light is not visible. to charge itself
It is also rich in ul- is predominantly blue. not emitted
more readily much can be photographed traviolet and in
than α conventional glass lens. through α quartz lens
The negative corona process may manifest itself
two as α train of individual pulses, called Trichel pulses
It may of the phenomenon. an early investigator the after
also manifest itself as α pulseless glow or as negative
away about 1 cm streamers extend Trichel streamers.
produces α current and each one from the electrode re-
to pulse of amplitude varying from xAI 10-8 at point
electrodes to 2 ξ 10-2 Α at large electrodes.
The discharge propagates for up to 20 ns (20 ξ
10-9 see) before being choked off by the space charge.
half- ns, with 25 and 50 between times are rise
value widths about twice that long. Because the pulses
are short, they can lead to radio noise over α very wide band of frequencies. If the field strength increases, the
rate at which the Trichel pulses are formed increases.
The maximum frequency of the pulses has been re-
ported as 2 kHz for an 8-mm sphere and 3 MHz for α
30 degree conical point.
After the Trichel pulses reach their maximum fre-
quency, α pulseless glow forms around the electrode.
Under these conditions the discharge current becomes
essentially de and ceases to emit radio noise. As the
electric field is increased even further, negative stream-
ers appear and extend out from the electrode sev-
eral centimeters. The current consists of pulses su-
perimposed on α quasi-steady state current with the
rise times of the pulses being on the order of 0.5 ps
(0.5 ξ sec). 10-1 The visual appearance of the corona
sketched pulses are of the current shape and the pulses
1.7. on Fig.
4