Sprotective
 device .
gu !oncinoped
connection
circuit. Protected 18.36 Fig.
af- normally functions EUT the If margin: Protective
the protection to assume safe it is ter the test probably
a question may still remain but there adequate, was
de- the protective margin protective how much about
edge on the was just circuit the offer. Possibly vices
would protector less effective slightly and a of failure
development engineering During failure. allowed have
pro- the whether to determine appropriate might be it
is satisfactory. tective margin
a is desired, margin protective of an assessment If
as follows, be procedure might test suitable
and measure the lead test to normal Apply the 1.
the circuit. on developed the voltage
to generator the surge level of the power 2. Reduce
zero.
device, protective the Disconnect 3.
protective questions of in involved not are Filters
be disconnected. should not and margin
at starting lead, the unprotected to Apply surges 4.
the until level the increasing and level power a low
was in than it is greater developed peak voltage
The waveshape margin. 1 by an appropriate step
from be different most likely will of the voltage
developed in step 1. that
shopld margin constitutes an appropriate What
30% of plan. A margin the test out in be spelled
be appropriate. may
cir- test the device and the protective Reconnect 5.
proper operation. cult for
the protective disconnect to not appropriate It is
The purpose surges. full level then apply devices and

circuit of hav- relieve the devices is to protective of the
ing to withstand full amplitude surges.
Injection for Transformer Procedures 18.7
Tests
of somewhat on the objectives Procedures depend
devel- is threat lightning induced the how and the test
procedures under test. Test the equipment for
are still evolving and there is not as yet uniformity
Test agencies. and groups testing various the among
yet have not that ambiguities involve may practices
resolved. been
Level of Power Adjustment 18.7.1
involves some ra- of these The most prominent
of the power level adjusting the of tional method
the of characteristics impedance generator to the surge
fun- test. Several system under and cable equipment
are possible. approaches different damentally
level to power circuit and the generator 1. Adjust
dummy upon to an agreed waves specified deliver
and to the EUT the circuit apply Then circuit.
may. they what be and let I V
spec- to deliver level and power the circuit 2. Adjust
gener- whatever using to the EUT, I (or ified V)
may be required. ator
V a specified gives setting power what Determine 3.
power level for Treat this as a maximum (or I).
a give to level power adjust the Then test. the
the maxi- without exceeding specified I (or V)
level. power mum
three different these discussions following For the
circuit," "dummy as the to be referred will approaches
approaches, "Modified" the and Book," "Yellow tht
use. in widespread not names these are although
1 2. and for Waveforms Procedures 18.7.2
be must generator pulse and transformer The
cir- short the required to deliver together adjusted
open circuit voltag2 appropriate or the cuit current
ei- generating involve the tests Generally waveforms.
circuit cur- short specified both) the not ther (but
voltage circuit open or the specified 1) (Waveform rent
imped- to the appropriate is (Waveform 2), whichever
test. under of the circuit ance
a proposals Original circuit: on dummy Calibration
484