I -" γ Ti " η
I . .. ".... .... ,.
(α)
σ
11"Y.. .. I
(β)
Fig. 14.8 Multiple conductors.
(α) Bundled conductors
bundle Shielded (β)
Determining the voltage between wires, or
dB difference between line-to-ground and line-to-line
voltages in terms of wire locations, is beyond the capa-
bilities of any elementary type of calculation. Modal
analysis techniques are called for, but α discussion
that subject is beyond the scope of this book.
pirical estimates are often about the best that can
hoped for.
is voltage ciacuit the of actual magnitude The
termined as much, or more, by the impedances of
circuits to which the wires connect as it is by the
acteristics of the wire. Prudence might suggest
counting on line-to-line voltages being more than
dB less than line-to-ground voltages unless the
cuits have been carefully designed to have balanced
impedances at both ends of the cable.
Efect of α shield: If the wire is covered with α shield
grounded at only one end, Fig. 14.8(β), the magnet.
ically induced voltage from conductor to ground
not be much reduced, though the shield may reduce
the voltage between conductors. The field will induce
as much voltage between the end of the shield
ground as it does between the conductor and ground.
Α shield grounded at each end will reduce the voltage,
but further discussion of the matter will be deferred
to Chapter 16.
field: 14.10 assume 14.8 and Eqs. the of Orientation
the magnetic field to be oriented at right angles to
plane of the wire loop. If the field were oriented differ-
ently the induced voltage would be less, but for simpli-
fied calculations such as these it is probably prudent
to consider only worst case orientation of the field.

Example: Fig. 14.9(α) shows the same conductor as
"Fig. 14.6(α), but subjected to α changing magnetic
field of the waveshape indicated in Fig. 14.9(χ). In
source voltage the 14.7(β) Fig. of circuit equivalent the
calculated as waveshape magnitude and α have would
by Eq. 14.9. For this elementary circuit the driving
V0,, and 14.9(δ), Fig. as the same be would voltage
its waveshape is that of the derivative of the magnetic
field. The short circuit current, being proportional
to the integral of the open circuit voltage, has nearly
Vthe same waveshape as the magnetic field driving the
circuit.
Source impedance: The ratio of open circuit voltage
α this circuit is 9.6 ohms, short circuit current for to
cou- resistively for the than found higher value much
pled example of Fig. 14.6. As in §14.3.1 the value
surge of impedance applies only for α magnetic field
having the indicated waveshape.
the
14.3.3 Response to Electric Fields
of Equivalent circuits for objects exposed to an elec-
Em- tric field are not as intuitively obvious as for conduc.
be tors exposed to IR rises or to changing magnetic fields.
They are best developed by discussing the short circuit
voltage. circuit open discussing before current de-
the
char- Short circuit current: For conductors exposed to α
not changing magnetic field, the voltage cand current can
20 be eliminated, theoretically, by placing the conductors
cir- flush with the ground plane. For conductors exposed
to α changing electric field this may not be so.
Fig. 14.10(α) (also shown in §9.8.3) shows α sur-
face exposed to α changing electric field E,, the field
assumed to be oriented perpendicular to this surface.
The changing electric field will produce α displacement
will current and if α portion of the surface is isolated and
connected to the rest of the surface through α conduc.
tor, the current through that conductor will be
and
I. - KeoA(41
δ4.
where is K unity for this geometry and
- μ2 the surface area of Α =
the ε 8.854 = ξ 10-11 F/μ
0
actual electric - field V/μ - ε
= tual elect fd τ
-
I time seconds = -
I.ε short circuit current amperes = -
378