Rotorcraft zones: Due to the fact that rotorcraft
may be airborne with little or zero airspeed, the
stroke phenomenon may not be applicable, and there-
fore attachment points at leading edges, frontal
faces or any lower extremities may receive all compo-
nents of the flash amd be within Zone An example 1Β.
of lightning strike zones on α typical rotorcraft is shown
in Fig. 5.12.
The zones on α typical twin turboprop aircraft
pictured on Fig. 5.13.
Once the lightning strike zones have been estab-
lished they should be documented on α three-view
drawing of the aircraft or rotorcraft, with boundaries
identified by appropriate station numbers or other
tation. It is usually appropriate for the applicant to
view the zone drawings with cognizant FAA certifying
engineers or Designated Engineering Representatives
(DER'σ) to obtain concurrence, as the zones form
basis for certification of the designs that follow.
5.6.2 Step β - Establish the Lightning
Environment
The external lightning environment is α conse-
quence of the interaction of the lightning flash
the exterior of the aircraft. The erieironment is
at components lightning current the by resented
aircraft surface. Application of the various current
components to the strike zones is given in Table
These are the currents that muse be protected against.
Key Zone
Zone 1AZoe. 2Β
Fig. 5.12 Strike zones for helicopters,

Lightning current densities into skins and through
swept the airframe are based on this environment. The in-
ternal lightning environment, which is produced by
sur- the external environment, is α result of current flow
through the airframe and the penetration of electro-
magnetic fields. The fields and structural IR poten-
tials give rise to indirect effects.
 Identify Flight Critical/ are 5.6.3 Step χ -
Essential Systems and Components
Identify the aircraft systems and/or components
that may be susceptible to direct and indirect effects
no- of lightning, and whose proper operation is critical or
re- essential to the safe flight of the aircraft.
Determine if any of these structures and systems
could be damaged or upset by direct or indirect light-
the ning effects.
with
rep-
the
5.3.
2Α
ZZone 23
Fig. 6.13 Strike zones for α light twin
turboprop aircraft.
110