3Ω
30
" -.. ω-on
la
-of
[I fOI -
7.-'toac*• "_ω
400• \ Ii
-TO- CýΤ=Λ TIME CK
U-CISI I
Im -. 1 .μ0can 3 [-
Iwo
-
toe
-- -many - 0200 o00o oo 1200 00 τ0o 400 1o0 1000
TO TIME CREST.,σ
Fig. 1.29 Switching impulse sparkover of
to plane gaps. sphere
(1.6] Positive polarity
If the arc is initiated by α breakdown, prior to
breakdown the voltage between the electrodes will be
high and the current through the gap will be very low.
Once the breakdown occurs there will be an ionized
region in the gas between the electrodes and current
will flow through that ionized region. If α plot is made
of the distribution of potential between the electrodes,
as shown on Fig. 1.30, it will be noted that part of
the total voltage drop is concentrated at the cathode,
part concentrated at the anode and that the rest is
distributed along the column of the arc. The energy
released in the three regions will be the product of the
current and the voltage across that region.
1.
anode cathode
Va drop drop
regio region
"IF
ρ
_ column region Vo arc
"cathode anode
Fig. 1.30 Distribution of potential
between electrodes,
Arc temperature: The energy released in the ionized
region uf α freely burning arc will, under most condi-
tions, be sufficient to raise the temperature of the con-
ducting path to between 50000 K. to 60000 K., suffi-
cient to cause the arc to become such α good conductor

that the current will be limited only by the impedance
of the external circuit. If α very high current is built up
Svery rapidly even higher temperatures will be reached,
the order of 20 0000 K. in the conducting channel
α lightning flash.
temperatures these attains arc the As voltage: Arc
the voltage across'the arc channel will collapse from
the on value to α kV/cm 5 about of value initial an
and of temperature, The increase of 10 V/cm. order
the collapse of voltage, is not instantaneous, but it
take place in α fraction of α microsecond. Devel-
opment of α completely stable arc, though may take
at the seconds or minutes because the conditions
electrodes also influence the development of the arc.
The cathode or negative electrode is the one that
is at the arc since it of an the properties most affects
cathode that the electrons transported through the arc
will released. Before the arc forms, the cathode are
from the cathode will be pulled and electrons be cold
surface ap- the cathode at gradient voltage the when
proaches 30 kV/cm. After the arc forms the cathode
will become heated in spots to its boiling temperature
and the electrons will be pulled from the cathode by
the electric field between the surface of the cathode
and the adjacent column of ionized gas. For α freely
burning arc this voltage drop will be on the order of 10
volts and will occur over α very short distance between
the cathode and the arc channel, probably on the or-
der of 5 ξ cm. Before steady 10' state conditions are
reached it may be several times this value.
The energy released at the surface of the cathode
is given by the product of gap current and cathode
voltage drop and since the cathode drop region is very
the to transferred readily is energy released the short,
Localized formed. is cathode the which from material
em- current the which from the points temperatures at
local boiling to cause enough be high will always anates
at the surface of the electrode, on the order of 34000
α thus is of an electrode Heating aluminum. K. for
drop; cathode the of out arising matter localized very
the column of temperature the with to do has little it
electrode. the adjacent to gas of
Current density: On average, the cathode current den-
2 sity will be on the order of 5000 Α/cm for iron or cop-
per electrodes, at least for arc currents on the order of
α few tens of amperes. It may be higher for higher
arc currents. The electrons will not be emitted uni-
formly over the whole surface of the cathode however;
they will be emitted from localized cathode spots. The
current from any particular spot tends to be constant,
and if the total current in the arc becomes too large
to be supplied by one cathode spot, others will form.
16