calculated. The cable top end of the wire were is that it is at the of the approach ments. The disadvantage
finite difference was incorporated by standard that the boundary bundle approximation which assumes an
run for The example was wire techniques (12.20]. on the presence thin not significantly depend fields do not
all injected at the waveshapes, the degree three lightning-current the aperture. Considering or absence of
tail, and of peak mag- of the aircraft, exiting the produced by lightning are nose to which the external fields
had rise times of nitude 53 kA. The three waveshapes place (as opposed to precisely truly known in the first
200 ns. 90, and 30, diffi- practical of a be much not this may calculated)
culty.
analytical procedure con- Steps in the process: The
is to short main steps. The first step sists of three
external to the aperture and solve for the fields the
finite- This is done with a three-dimensional aircraft.
At each a rather coarse gridding. difference code using
on a surface finite-difference code, the fields step of the
aperture are the eventual position of the surrounding
to determine These stored fields are necessary stored.
the aperture is opened. conditions when boundary
down step is to shrink the gridding The second
(a) dow modeling to a size that is compatible with adequate
it should be fine enough that of the aperture. Hence
aperture. fall within the now open several grid points
--- -- -- - - space problem con- boundary as serve one step a from fields The stored
2 ditions for the finer grid.
The cockpit the grid introduces two problems. Shrinking
first is that the finer grid has more points on its bound-cal
is neces- I window grid that was stored, so it ary than the coarse
for the additional points. Secondly, sary to interpolate 2
step time smaller a usually demands gridding finer the
I" be- thus interpolation difference process; finite in the
e 21 is necessary. time steps stored tween
5 to is procedure analytic the in step third The
(b)
.----- inside the cavity in a finite- again solve for the fields - --
(b) stored, and the grid finer the fashion using difference
The uniqueness interpolated boundary conditions.
Geometries to illustrate coupling fields are correct, Fig. 12.22 theorem implies that the internal
cockpit. into a does not the aperture presence of that the assuming
external environment (a) To determine the boundary fields. This approxi- significantly affect
window (b) To determine coupling through is kept far from should be valid if the boundary ination
the aperture.
be the largest response would It was expected that
its because 30 ns pulse cockpit for the inside the seen the done employing have been Calculations Example:
pene- easily components should most high-frequency inside response a cable solve for to theorem uniqueness
Fig. the case. to be proved This the aperture. trate ex- The [12.21]. by lightning struck C-130 aircraft a
while wire of the end the top at voltage the shows 12.23 The the cockpit. in a cable is for here presented ample
re- only the For clarity, current. the shows 12.24 Fig. a three- is fields external for the to solve used code
Since shown. are no currents and 90 to 30 no sponses in [12.21]. discussed code difference finite dimensional
in be terminated to wire the calculation assumed the in Fig. is shown example for the chosen The boundary
high, is quite voltage the resistance, its characteristic hatched is the aperture window the cockpit and 12.22
a nearly arc through an that in fact high sufficiently differ- finite A three-dimensional the figure. in area
actually that voltage were be expected air could foot of points various fields at solve for used to code was ence
cable bundle to be developed. cockpit, and incorporated a inside the
any since not occur do such arcs aircraft In real cock- in the vertically running in diameter inches two
that shields and wires have would bundle realistic cable resistors Matching the window. meters behind 1.3 pit
Fig. on shown current The circuits. short form would and current voltage and the the ends, on placed were
348