tures, causing a spark to jump across the bond
between the two. In most tank designs, sparks are
likely than arcs.
While the above mechanisms have been postu-
lated as the probable cause of the in-flight fuel tank
explosions associated with lightning strikes, the exact
location or source of ignition has not been positively
identified in any of these accidents. The amount
energy in an electrical spark required to cause ignition
is so small that such a spark would leave little or
other evidence of itself, such as pitting of a metal sur-
face. It may also be possible that ignition occurred
outside the fuel system ventoutetandthe itself, for prpagtedthrughvent example, at a fuel pipes
vent outlet, and then propagated through vcomponents,
to the inside.
Flammability 7.2 Fuel
become has of it some until ignite cannot Fuel
with oxy- ratio in a combustible mixed and vaporized
genor air. The flammability of the vapor in a fuel gen rar. hefambitofteaprnaful
evapo- of concentration the to according varies tank
the fuel-to- Reducing air. available the in fuel rated
air ratio below a definite minimum value produces a
mixture that is too lean to burn. Likewise, if the fuel-
to-air ratio is too high, the mixture will be too rich
to burn. In between these extremes there is a range
mixtures that will burn.
When only equilibrium conditions are considered,
the particular fuel-to-air ratio that can exist in a tank
is determined by the temperature of the fuel and the
titude (pressure) of the aircraft. The temperature de-
termines the vapor pressure, and thus the quantity
the fuel vapor, and the altitude determines the quan-
tity of air. The combination of temperature and alti-
tude determines whether the vapor in the ullage (the
space from which fuel has been drained) of a fuel tank
is either flammable or nonflammable.
Research concerning fuel vapors and their flam-
inability characteristics has included laboratory inves-
tigations of fuel vapors that exist within laboratory
type containers as well as those that exist during flight.
Nestor's study: Perhaps the most comprehensive labb-
oratory work is that of Nestor (7.11, who paid particu-
lar attention to the behavior of fuels in aircraft tanks
and flight environments. He found wide variations in
the amount of fuel that can exist in the vaporized state
as a result of a wide variety of temperatures, pressures,
and motions that can exist in flight.
In addition to fuel already present as a vapor, the
aircraft motion and vibration also causes the liquid
fuel to be dispersed in the vapor space in the form of
mists and spray. An ignition source might heat these
droplets of fuel to a point where there is enough vapor

6
line present to support a flame, even if insufficient vapor
less has been released from the bulk fuel surface itself. The
developing flame then vaporizes more fuel, which con-
tinues to feed and enlarge the flame. Temperature and
altitude, however, are the primary characteristics re-
lated to flammability.
Types of fuel: Almost all aircraft with reciprocat-
of ing engines use 100 octane aviation gasoline (AvGas).
Turbine engine fuels, however, come in two broad cat-
no egories based on their distillation temperature ranges;
aviation kerosenes and wide-cut fuels. The aviation
kerosenes include Jet A, Jet A-1, and JP-5. The wide-
cut fuels, which have a higher percentage of volatile
include Jet B and JP-4. Turbine powered
commercial aircraft in the United States and in some
kerosenes. with aviation fueled are countries foreign
U.S.A.F. aircraft, and commercial transports in some
the in fuels wide-cut with fueled have countries, other
with starting to JP-8, will convert U.S.A.F. past. Th
NATO and finishing in the U.S. in the mid 1990s. The U.S. Navy uses JP-5 for carrier operations because it
h
flash-point. high has a
Flammability envelopes: The relationship of tem-
perature and altitude to tank vapor flammability is
illustrated by the flammability envelope. A typical
of flammability envelope is shown in Fig. 7.1 [7.2]. The
flammability limits for aviation gasoline and the tur-
bine fuels are presented in Fig. 7.2. [7.3] As shown
in Fig. 7.2, the lean limit for the aviation kerosenes
al- ranges from 40 to 600C at sea level and the rich limit
ranges from 85 to 1050C. For the wide-cut fuels, the
of lean 0 and rich limits at sea level are about -30 C
and 100C, respectively. For aviation gasoline the lean
limit is approximately -40*C and the rich limit about
-50C.
Too Rich
To Durn
Rtich Limit
Lean t-mit
lammable
Too Wean To Durn
0 matapersturz
Fig. 7.1 Typical flammability envelope of
an aircraft fuel.
172