11., will shield, inner on the current noise the shields,
is conductor the to which voltage total The zero. be
in- the conditions Under such V..-.. is also exposed
noise the of reduction much provide not will shield ner
voltage,
HWJ Σ._€.vc,•,,..• ι •surface φ ζ
...
(α)
__,_ _
OVI6 V#U
Σ.._.-.over
. _ Σ7 ...............- 7 0' 7-ρ-77per 7 7
(β)
cable. Double shielded 15.9 Fig.
field polarities and (α) Current
forced and inner shield on (β) Current
Λ through ,.o,. 1
inner the If ends: both at grounded Inner shield
ends at both shield outer the to is connected shield
by shared will be current the noise closed), Σ (switch
re- will conductor but the outer shields, and the inner
the of inner surface the field along to the only spond
be confined will current the all Lnitially shield. inner
the cur- dc conditions under shield and outer to the
of the the resistance to according be divided rents will
region be α transient will there in between but shields,
pri- determined will be current of the division where
outer inner and the between inductance by the marily
shields.
currents: to visu- One way component as Treatment
to have current the to consider is phenomenon alize the
impressed noise current the total two components,
circulating α component and source an outside from
view- this From shields. outer and inner the between
to equal be will shield inner on the current the point
the on current the while component circulating the
two components. the of sum be the will shield outer
"The shield the inner on the current drives that voltage
through of current the flow by produced that will be
volt- This shield. of the outer impedance transfer the
the between the impedance on when impressed age,
on the the current determines outer shields inner and
is impedance shielded cables this well shield. For inner
402

cur- the of waveshape The inductive. predominantly
I1., to proportional is then shield, inner the on rent
the along developed voltage the of integral time the
the on current shield. The outer the of surface inner
and time rise slower α has typically thus shield inner
the inner along the field does than duration α longer
the in- on 11., current, This outer shield. of the surface
ternal shield then produces an electric field along the
re- The conductor . E shield, inner of the ,. 1 1
inner along the field the electric to sponds primarily
shield.
be apparent will It shielding: multiple of Example
con- shield of combinations of α number are there that
"nections are pos- which impedances termination and
the of response overall the affecting them all of sible,
demon- been have effects these of Some system. cable
in described tests the of extension an during strated
coax- RG-58/U of piece The 15.7. through 15.2 Figs.
by pulling modified was tests those used for ial cable
cop- of flexible another length jacket the outer
of is cable Triaxial cable. triaxial forming α braid,
available. cOnmiercially course
Fig. on shown are results and connections test The
com- separate has three circuit The equivalent 15.10.
all prac- for that each, the sense in separate ponents;
The independently. be treated may tical purposes,
induced voltage the determines circuit of the first part
gov- is This shield. the outer of surface inner the along
transfer the through flowing current the outer by erned
MI. and R, shield, the outer of §15.4) (see impedance
this inner the problem, of stage the second In
ex- the inductance across is impressed voltage shield
order to in shields and outer the inner isting between
shield. inner on the flowing current the determine
shield the inner current on the the third stage, In
the in- of impedance transfer the through is passed
and current of product Μ . The and ner shield, R 2 2
be- that appear voltages the gives impedance transfer
conductor. signal central ground on the line and tween
shown voltages, of these amplitudes and shapes The
developed those less than are much Fig. 15.10(χ), in
Fig. 15.7. conductor, singly shielded on the
Sldelds Impedance of Cable Transfer 15.6
which is one 15.7 Fig. of equivalent circuit The
in- self the transformers, of use the through depicts,
and the shield and conductor the both of ductances
mu- two. Self and the between inductance the mutual
precision with great be known inductances must tual
α require- accurately, be calculated are to results if
two is split into circuit is the can be relaxed that ment
relates of the circuit One part 15.8. as in Fig. parts,
shield on the flowing the current field to magnetic the
the shield to on the the current another relates and