2 2 core cross-sectional area of 592 cm (92 in ) would be
to support the aforementioned 1000 volt dou- needed
ef- In the context of indirect ble exponential pulse.
large transformer α very that represents testing, fects
transformer to use why it is difficult explains core and
long high amplitude, to develop coupling techniques
wires, on open-circuited duration voltages
com- problems of core size are pulses: The Multiple
If the first pulses are involved. pounded when multiple
point 1, α sec- path (α) to carried the core along pulse
magnitude and polarity would the same ond pu.se of
to α point far along path (β) to carry the flux have
higher than point 1. The core would become satu-
current would become limited raied, the magnetizing
generator and the pulse of the by the characteristics
not be developed. voltage pulse would desired
Full use of α transformer core for injection of mul-
polarity pulses of opposite tiple pulses would require
of volt-second product, though not necessarily and
α se- The first pulse in or waveshape. equal magnitude
second would flux to point 1, the would carry the ries
again carry it point 3 and the third would carry it to
to point 1.
may be - H loops of Β-H loops: Measurement Β
turns on α primary winding N, measured by exciting
it, α second wind- voltage to be induced and allowing
18.20. Α signal shown in Fig. turns, as ing of N
2
applied to the hence to is to (and I proportional NI ι
signal pro- an oscilloscope and α horizcntal input of
vertical of el applied to the portional to the integral
input.
R
σ75 _C N-
Measurement of - loop. Fig. 18.20 Β H
and 18.22 show Figs. loops: 18.21 Examples Β-H of
with the above H loops as measured examples of - Β
α ungapped toroidal 18.21 refers to technique. Fig.

core wound from grain oriented silicon steel of 0.36
to α core mm (0.014 in) thickness. Fig. 18.22 refers
joined with no in- U-shaped ferrite blocks made from
more provides α ferrite core gap. The air tentional
core and has than the steel Β - H characteristic linear
force. Other at zero magnetizing residual flux lower
steel better than the it would be things being equal,
core at transforming multiple pulses.
α large cores will generally have Ungapped steel
flux. Α gap in the α large remnant - H loop and Β
the Β - remnant flux and make would reduce the core
18.22. Some ferrite like that of Fig. loop more H
some do not; it remnant flux and have α large cores
Powdered iron depends on the type of core material.
cores would have α small remnant flux.
1400 Klines
77 Α-Τ
Fig. 18.21 - H loop of an ungapped steel core. Β
40 Klin•σ
Α-Τ
Fig. 18.22 Β -. H loop of α gapped ferrite core.
current: In an ideal Saturation when Injecting effects
current would be 18.14(α) the induced situation, Fig.
(equal turns assumed) injected current equal to the
477