be taken will magnetically induced voltages The ______.__.
= 125 0 Z having trapezoidal sources voltage independent as
waveforms with front and fall times of 10 no and hay- 0.5μ - 1 (1.8 ft)
(α) on the as indicated and durations starting times ing
0.21 that require programs circuit analysis figures. Most MAH
with in series as being be described sources voltage
indepen- than existing some sort, rather α branch of
13 pF as will be taken they these illustrations For dently.
could they though resistors, I ohm with in series being
(β) induc- the of one with in series been have weil equally
of representation parameter α lumped comprising tors
line. α transmission
run Α for Equivalent impedance 14.28 Fig. be taken could currents electrically induced The
Α. in zone branch, though some with in shunt source as α current
line 'Transmission (α) source α current allow programs circuit analysis some
constant (β) Lumped that circuits The to α node. directly be connected to
in- the electrically but such α connection, show follow
the in were not included Zone Α currents in duced
0.47 I iH 0 0.47 MH dis- small. Further they were fairly since simulations
the including sources, of treating of methods cussion
8 between cir- coupling to treat sources dependent use of
pF 3 8 [14.9]. in given is cuits,
sections: If the circuit solution (α) Equivalents of cable
H Α 0 1 simplest represen- the it, allows used be to program
.... line it as α transmission of α conductor treats tation
= 142 0 '}"'Z Z 142 = prop- velocity of and surge impedance α certain having
agation. If not, α conductor should be represented 1 = Im (3.3ft) 1 = Im (3.3ft)
(β) ca- shunt and inductors of series network ladder as α
were sections the cable analyses, For these pacitors.
Β for run impedance 14.29 Equivalent Fig. shunt ca- with the in series as two inductors treated
Α. in zone the 2/3 at and end at each 1/6 distributed pacitance
line (α) Transmission voltage The appropriate the two inductors. of junction
Lumped constant (β) between connected were sections cable for the sources
for impedances appropriate inductors. The the two
in Figs. indicated were as of cable various sections the
 14.31. 14.28 -
distributed α lumps into which of The number
20 80 20 de- the accuracy broken depends on is transmission
rpF pF pF gives greater of more lumps the solution. Use sired of
but of validity), range frequency accuracy (broader
HB (α) time. Discussion of the incurs greater computation
the is beyond alternatives various modeling merits of
that follow, illustrations The of this section. scope
0 1660 Z = Z = 166 between the little significant difference however, show
1 = 3μ (1 Oft) crude lumped con- = 3μ (loft) I response as calculated by the rather
line (β) the more refined transmission stant approach and
approach.
modeling of different merits of the Any discussion
run C for impedance Equivalent 14.30 Fig. wiring the that recognize course, must, of approaches
Β. in zone to complex probably too is aircraft real any system of
line Transmission (α) is approach whichever precision complete with model
Lumped constant (β) used.
390