It is largely for this reason that the standardized light-
fning threat described in Chapter 5 is described in such
detail.
κ• 100 /
(0)
o •Full
, . .best
(β)
to 0 Ums
crest
Fig. 13.12 Justifiable extrapolation.
(α) Full threat current
(β) Low amplitude test current
13.3.4 Approaches to Pulse Testing
There are several approaches to pulse testing:
to test- Full threat verification tests: One approach
ing is to subject α complete aircraft, fully configured,
with all systems operating, to α full threat lightning
current and observe whether any harmful effects are
noted. If treated as α test, this approach Go/No-Go
has, in principle at least, the virtues of simplicity and
requiring the least time for preparation, but is seldom
used in practice because:
The cost 1. and complexity of α simulator capable of
generating 200 kA peak current with the required
fast rise time is excessive,
2. The current and charge distributions on the air-
craft while in the simulator will be different from
those that exist while in flight,
3. Since the test program would not be aimed at
gathering information on voltages and currents,
there would be no information with which to cor-
rect problems should they be found,
4. There is no predictable method to update test re-
suits for aircraft modifications.
5. The perceived lightning threat may be changed in
the future as more data becomes available,
6. There is α potential for damage to the test vehicle,
Σ
The major drawback to such tests is the cost and
complexity of the test equipment. Equipment has been

built to perform full threat tests, on small aircraft at
(13.4], least but capacitor banks operating at more
than 2 million volts are required. Because of the long
duration of lightning currents, the energy required to
be stored is many times that required for full threat
nuclear electromagnetic pulse (NEMP) tests. Costs of
facilities would be several million dollars.
threat analysis tests: Conceptually, it would be
to use full threat, or near full threat currents, dur-
and voltage evaluate to measurement program α ing
tests Such the aircraft. on points many at current
are made during evaluations of NEMP effects, but the
costs are quite high.
Full threat lightning analysis tests have seldom
been made on aircraft, partly because of lack of test
facilities. Even if test facilites were available, costs
would be high since the tests would require α consider-
able amount of time to perform. Large energy storage
banks require considerable time to charge, frequently
need maintenance and safety requirements have to be
quite stringent. Also, high current level test circuits
are subject to the same constraints as lower level cir-
cuits in such things as size and impedance of return
circuits and relationships between magnetic and elec-
tric field magnitudes.
level oscillatory High tests: As discussed in §Α8,
unidirectional current waves are produced either by
leading to circuit complexity, or by using crowbarring,
enough circuit resistance to damp oscillations, lead-
ing to inefficient use of the energy stored in the surge
generator. An alternative approach to testing, more
widely used in the past than at present, is to accept
oscillatory test currents when evaluating indirect ef-
fects, just as they are accepted during tests of direct
effects. Oscillatory currents of high magnitude can be
produced by simple capacitor banks, but the wave-
forms will be totally unlike those produced by natural
lightning.
Accepted practice, in the past at least, has been
to make tests using two different generators, each of
which produces an underdamped oscillatory current.
One generator, usually operated in α Marx configura-
tion, is configured to oscillate at high frequency and
provide α fast rate of rise while the other is config-
ured to oscillate at low frequency and provide α long
duration current. The high frequency waveform is in-
tended primarily for evaluation of aperture effects and
the low frequency waveform is intended for evaluation
of resistive and diffusion effects.
Oscillatory currents (and have) had both advan-
tages and disadvantages.
361