the surface applied, currents With alternating
by Eq. given as distributed remains density current
un- probably frequencies, high to indefinitely up 10.11
the order becomes on cylinder width of the til the
through density current The wavelength. α of tenth α
vary with the cylinder will thickness of the wall
skin constant until the but it too remains quency,
thickness, as the wall same about the becomes depth
case. in this 3 kHz to approximately 0
may density current external the cases many In
pur- practical for sufficient with accuracy determined
considera- under surface the approximating by poses
an approximation such ellipses. If or an ellipse by tion
tech- other are there accuracy, sufficient give not does
discussed these are of Some used. be may that niques
§10.5. in
Electric Governing Effects Elementary 10.3
Fields
surface α conducting field around electric The
produces flash α lightning since of importance also
capaci- which couple fields electric changing rapidly
electric of behavior aircraft. The wiring in to the tively
mag- of the behavior to similar ways is in many fields
electric charge that way in the particularly fields, netic @
same way the of conductors edges to the crowds
cylinder elliptic the on charge Α static does. rent
itself in distribute would for example, 10.7(α), Fig.
by equations given being density the shown, manner
field electric The 10.9 10.11. Eqs. form as same the -
to be proportional surface would at the strength
towards angle α right at directed and density charge
which field the magnetic to contrasted as surface, the
distribution The surface. tangential to the be would
it would frequency; with not change would charge
at high be charge as it would static α DC for the same
would of charge distribution the Also, frequencies.
at least the material, of by the resistivity affected be
conditions. for DC
become field will electric in an placed conductor Α
induced charge electric have is, it will that polarized;
an electric 10.7(β), on Fig. shown As the field. it by on
one side to electrons draw will as shown field directed
charge, positive or of electrons, α deficiency leave and
sur- at the strength field electric The side. the other on
undis- of the strength than the be greater thus will face
conditions symmetrical the For field. electric turbed
will strength field the electric 10.7(β) shown on Fig.
opposite polarity. of though edges, two at the be equal
other . mechanism some by produced charge static Α
charge at one add to the induced than induction will
as shown edge, other the at it from subtract and edge
field strengths the electric making Fig. 10.7(χ) on
equal.

(α)
field External of
+
+ fre-
+
+
+
be
(β)
(χ)
distribution. Charge 10.7 Fig.
charge net α to Due (α)
field an external to Due (β)
factors Due to both (χ)
den- to the is proportional strength the field Since is
great- will be strength field electric the charge, sity of
the curvature, of radius α small having at points est
If the for example. fighter aircraft boom of α nose
be may there high sufficiently is strength field electric
corona either point, at that the air in α breakdown
as de- Fire St. Elmo'σ 1 or Chapter in described as cur-
may progress breakdown 2. This Chapter in scribed of
3. in Chapter as discussed triggered lightning the into
of
Fields and Electric Combined Magnetic 10.4
the
fields electric and magnetic conditions, Under DC
re- for (except other of each independently exist can
may or both the other one or and E-fields) sistive of
For conductor. carrying α current around be present be
present, will be both conditions, and AC transients
or of one effects conditions the for some while and not
be must usually they be predominant, the other may
present be- be will both They together. considered
to α changing gives rise field magnetic α changing cause
course of relationship the versa, and visa field electric
in more discussed Laws, as by Maxwell'σ given being
magnetic and electric changing The §10.6. in detail
and other each to angles at right be oriented will fields
two. the to angles right at α direction in propagate will
the along propagating current α lightning example, For
elec- and magnetic will produce 10.8 Fig. of conductor
E and magnitudes of the The fields as indicated. tric
the of Z impedance the given by be will vectors H
pass; they which over surface
(10.14) E/H = Z,
Chapter in discussed having been impedance surface un-
of the surface over propagating wave the initial 9. For
279