field: the is that The first of incident Cancellation
tends to that field α magnetic produces current shield
15.7(α). From this view- the incident field, Fig. cancel
point the voltages between the signal conductor and
the incident the difference between ground depend on
land the cancelling fields.
the reduction coupling: 'Alternatively, Transformer
in voltage can be viewed as the effect of the mutual
inductive coupling between the shield and the signal
the by illustrated is approach latter This conductor.
consid- is shield The 15.7(χ). Fig. of circuit equivalent
as the primary of α transformer and tle conductor• ered
at both Since ,the shield is grounded the secondary. \as
ends, all the voltage developed on the shield appears
transformers. The mutual of the the, primaries across
coupling between the shield and the signal conductor
is veryI nearly unity since there is only α small (idf'ally
to the shield and 'o the zero) magnetic field internal,
voltage induced in the secondary, or signal conductor,
side of the equivalent transformer, is about equal to
volt- The shield. the in originally induced voltage the
age appearing between the ends of the conductor is the
sum of that indticed in the conductor and that coupled
through' the tran σ'former (rom, the shield. Accordingly,
the voltages appearing at the ends of the conductor
are lower than they ývould be if the shield could not,
* carry current.
Transfer impedance: The transformer equivalent cir-
cuit of Fig. 15.7(χ) is not well suited to numerical cal-
in- and mutual the self that it requires since culation
trans- The high precision. evaluated with be ductances
fer impedance of Fig. 15.8 is better since it involves
of the shield and calculation the resistance of the only
magnetic flux that leaks through the shield and so does
not equally link both conductors. This flux can be re-
duced to an equivalent transfer inductance The Λ . 12
voltage induced on the conductor then depends on the
shield current, R and How the voltage distributes Λ . 12
depends on the loads at the end of the cable. In Fig.
15.8 most of the voltage develops on the open end.
Multiple Conductors 15.4 in Cable Shields
If there are multiple conductors in the cable, each
of flux be exposed to the same amount conductor will
This equal voltage. in it an induced and will have
holds true whether the conductor is located adjacent
to the shield or in the center of the bundle of conduc-
tors comprising the core. Stated another way, position
of the wire within the shield has little effect on the
magnetically induced voltage. Accordingly, the volt-
age between any pair of conductors in the core will be
small.

of sufilcient not seem tools do Present analytical
the magnitude assurance any with to predict accuracy
best determined by voltages; they are of line-to-line
actual measurement, Line-to-line voltages are much
impedances to which strongly influenced by Aoad more
the conductors are connected than by the position of
the coniductors within an overall'shield.
7/
.. . -:"
"...
- , •
(α)
 , -. - -ρ- -.
-
,
400'
I V _ [" ,_
.
-' (β)
I #,
Τ
, '•j.[•"[ • [• tVg
(χ)
Fig. 15.8 Shield groundei at both ends
(α) Test conditions
voltages (β) Conductor
circuit (χ) Equivalent
on Cables Multiple Shields 15.5
One very common situation involving multiple
conductors is α configuration in which α shielded con-
ductor is itself contained in an overall shield. Fig. 15.9
shows such α condition and shows some of the factors
that must be considered when predicting the response
of this two-cable network. They are the noise cur-
rents on the outer shield, the internal field of the outer
shield, the current induced on the inner shield, the in-
ternal field of the inner shield and the coupling from
the inner shield to the signal conductor. The inter-
of the noise the outer shield is the product nal field of
the outer shield. of impedance and the transfer current
Inner shield grounded at only one end: If the inner
shield is ungrounded at the right-hand end (switch
Σ of Fig. 15.9(β) open), the internal field of the
lI...., outer shield, E produces α voltage difference, _., 1
at the right- hand end of the cable. Neglecting the
distributed capacitance between the inner and outer
401