* current comes from an intensely ionized region close to
the ground. While the amplitude is usually not as high
as that of the first return stroke, the current rises to
crest more rapidly than does that of the initial return
stroke, presumably because the upward leader from
tie ground does not have to propagate into virgin air.
An oscillogram of an actual subsequent return
stroke was previously shown on Fig. 2.11. Anderson
and Ericksson [2.24] averaged the results of many dif-
ferent recordings and derived the composite picture of
the front of first and subsequent return strokes shown
on Fig. 2.19.
1 us 0
Subsequent
return
stroke First
F
•by
return
stroke
and first "averaged" of Pictures 2.19 Fig.
strokes. return subsequent
(2.24]. from Adapted
2.2.8 Lightning Polarity and Direction
Most lightning flashes originate in the cloud and
lower negative charge to earth. The question of di-
rection of the lightning flash is sometimes contfusing.
With the intent of clarifying matters, the statement is
sometimes made that lightning strikes upward and not
downward. This is at least partially true; the return
stroke that produces the high peak currents, thunder,
and the highest intensity light, in fact does start near
the ground and grows upward into the ionized chan-
nel previously established by the stepped leader, thus
tapping the charge in the stepped leader. The stepped
leader, nevertheless, originates at the cloud and lowers
electrons into the leader channel, from whence they ul-
is timately flow into the ground. The source of energy
in the cloud, and the lower amplitude and longer dura-
tion currents have their origin in the charge stored in
the cloud. In terms of the engineering definition of cur-
rent (positive to negative, opposite to the direction of
electrons), these flashes result in the direction of cur-
rent flow being from the earth to the cloud, but since
the electrons flow into the earth this type is commonly
called a negative polarity flash.

Flashes originating at the ground: When tall build-
ings or mountain tops are involved, the lightning flash
often does originate at the ground; the stepped leader
starts at ground level and propagates upwards into
the cloud. Such flashes seem to be triggered by the
high electric field concentrated around the top of the
building or mountain. They may be recognized by
the upward direction of branching, as mentioned ear-
lier and shown in Fig. 2.9(b). Most commonly this
type of flash is induced by a negatively charged cloud,
or at least by a cloud having an excess of negative
charge in its lower regions and the step leader carries
of type This the cloud. into upwards charge positive
cur- continuing low relatively a with off starts flash
stroke return original high current the lacks rent and
at the originates leader the in which of flashes typical
cloud. Subsequent strokes, if they occur, will be simi-
lar to those found in flashes that originate at the cloud.
artifically be triggered can also nature of this Flashes
launching from the ground a small rocket trailing
a wire attached to the ground.
Positive flashes: Some flashes, perhaps 10% of the to-
tal, lower positive charge to the earth (or more accu-
rately transport electrons from the earth to the cloud)
As with flashes. positive called accordingly are and
that a leader involve either may they flashes negative
earth, the towards cloud the from propagates initially
that initially propagates may involve a leader or they
from the earth towards the cloud. A fraction of these
positive flashes involve the highest peak currents and
charge found associated with lightning. Examples of
some of these strong positive flashes are shown in Fig.
2.20 [2.23]. They typically have only one high current
stroke and lack the restrike phase generally noted on
flashes of negative polarity. There is some evidence
that lightning flashes that occur in the winter as a re-
suit of snow are of positive polarity and of exceptional
severity. There is also some evidence that these very
high amplitude positive flashes occur as a result of the
air at the top of the cloud, the air that is known to
contain positive charge, being transported close to the
ground before the charge has a chance to flow off to
the ionosphere.
Intracloud Flashes 2.3
Intracloud flashes occur between charge centers
in the cloud. A distinguishing characteristic of intra-
cloud flashes is that they seem to lack the intense re-
turn stroke phase typical of flashes to the ground, or at
least that the electrical radiation associated with true
intracloud discharges lacks the characteristics associ-
ated with the return stroke of cloud-to-ground flashes.
29