Electronic pipe. of the end aft of the in) m (18 0.5
en- oa the mounted sensors with instruments engine
indirect lightning from damage experienced have gine
tail or nacelles the to strikes associated with effects
ioniza- sufficient either is Apparently, there pipes.
the of strength dielectric the or the exhaust in tion
propa- a divert to as is sufficiently weakened exhaust
the enable to or channel, exhaust the into leader gating
the from streamers propagating outward of formation
elsewhere struck been has aircraft the once pipe, tail
leader. a by
inside terminating flash Lightning 3.17 Fig.
pipe. exhaust tail engine jet
While the engine exhaust may divert an existing
leader, it seems improbable, however, that it could
trigger a flash by itself, as can a rocket plume. Other
strikes have terminated on the nacelles of wing and
fuselage mounted engines, in the same manner as with
other aircraft extremities,
Viewed another way, if the jet engine were leav-
that probable seems it exhaust, ionized an behind ing
even- would aircraft the on charge of imbalance an
As weather. clear in flying when even tually result,
aircraft the change would this charging, P-static with
cause and surroundings its to respect potential with
sharp extremities, from corona and discharging static
es- is well It equipment. in radio interference causing
happen. not does this that tablished
Electromagnetic Effects of Radiation: It has been
suggested that an aircraft's radar may trigger or divert
lightning strikes. This question was also investigated
by Schaeffer and Weinstock [3.15], who show that the
transmitted power level of microwave radiation neces-
sary to produce an electric field capable of ionizing air
is about 6.7 x watts (W), which is far greater than 10'
that available from aircraft radars.

show also reports incident strike lightning Aircraft
radiators- electromagnetic other or of radar no evidence
iormation. strike the lightning in involved been having
but punctured, are radomes which in cases There are
asso- field electric the of result are thc clearly these
of causing breakdown strike lightning the with ciated
terminating flash the with material, radome plastic the
radome the inside object grounded airframe some on
have punctures The itself. antenna radar the on or
operating. was set radar the not or whether occurred
the of outside the to strips diverter of addition The
enabling by punctures these radome usually prevents
a diverter. to directly to attach flashes lightning
Swept Stroke Phenomena 3.5
of a completed part has become After the aircraft
flash channel, the ensuing stroke and continuing cur-
rents which flow through the channel may persist for
up to a second or more. Essentially, the channel re-
mains in its original location, but the aircraft will
the life of distance during move forward a significant
the flash. Thus, whereas the initial entry and exit
poin',s are determined by the mechanisms previously
described, there may be other lightning attachment
points on the airframe that are determined by the mo-
tion of the aircraft through the relatively stationary
for ex- in the case of a fighter aircraft, flash channel.
pitot the as such extremity a forward when ample,
point, its sur- attachment initial an boom becomes
face moves through the lightning channel, and thus
the channel appears to sweep back over the surface,
as illustrated in Fig. 3.18. This occurrence is known
as the swept stroke phenomenon. As the sweeping
action occurs, the type of surface can cause the light-
ning channel to attach and dwell at various surface
locations for different periods of time. This sweeping
mechanism prevents the full energy of the lightning
flash from being delivered to one spot on the aircraft
as re- importance particular of phenomenon a surface,
tanks. fuel of protection and design gards
is non- radome, the as surface, such of the part If
last at the ccntinue to dwell may flash the metallic,
boom) pitot the end of (aft point attachment metallic
fuselage) (the surface metallic exposed another until
non- the puncture may channel the or it; reached has
be- object a metallic to reattach and metallic surface
neath it (the radar dish). Whether puncture or surface
flashover occurs depends on the amplitude and rate of
rise of the voltage stress created along the channel,
as well as the voltage withstand strength of the non-
metallic surface and any air gap separating it from the
enclosed metallic objects. When the lightning arc has
been swept back to one of the trailing edges, it may re-
main attached at that point for the remaining duration
of the lightning flash. An initial attachment point at a
54