oo τ Data -Test 500 - ..----.-.. :* :00..... E.trapolated
200/
70
.. .... . .. ...... ..
10
10
0.0001 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10
TO TIME FUEL IGNITION - THRESHOLD Second@
Fig. 7.12 Coulomb meltthrough and ignition threshold for aluminum skins (2024 Τ3).
Pressure effects: All the data reported on melt- of titanium is higher than the fuel ignition tempera-
through of fuel tank skins has been taken on test pan- ture, it is not necessary for α hole to be melted corn-
els in ambient conditions, that is, equal pressure on pletely through for ignition to occur, but only that α
both sides of the panels. Many aircraft fuel systems hot spot be formed on the inside surface. The lower
maintain some air pressure in the tanks. Fighter air- thermal conductivity of titanium prevents rapid heat
craft use pumps to supply pressure which is used to transfer away from the arc attachment point and ac-
force fuel flow under extreme atitudes and manuvers. counts for the generally lower coulomb ignition thresh-
Most other aircraft fuel vent systems use ram air vent olds than those for aluminum.
systems which provide some level oressure on the tank.
Pressure inside the tank on which burn-through Ignition thresholds for skins: There CFC are several
tests are being made makes α big difference in the level mechanisms which .nay result in ignitions of fuel va-
at which α hole appears. Α lightning arc may heat the por beneath carbon fiber composite (CFC) skins. One
surface to α point where metal is nearly molten, but if of these, discussed in Chapter 6, is the punch through
there is no pressure, the surface tension prevents the caused by ohmic heating of the CFC fibers resulting
molten metal from flowing away and leaving α hole. in pyrolosis of the resin, and the shock wave accompa-
Α very modest amount of pressure, however, suffices nying high peak currents, such as SAE Components Α
to push the molten metal away and leave α hole. Re- and These Δ. effects can punch comparatively large
cent tests, not yet released for publication, showed that holes in CFC skins, producing large areas of contact
with α gauge pressure of 34.5 kPa (5 psig) holes could between fuel vapors and the hot lightning arc. The
be burned in α 2.3 mm (0.090 in) aluminum skin by α other mechanisms include hot spot formation and fiber
23 C discharge. With no pressure, C was 66 required breakage.
to produce α hole. There have been fewer temperature measurements
This problem has not yet been addressed in the made on interior CFC skins than on aluminum. An-
requirements for testing fuel systems, and was not con- alytical studies by Lee and Su are described in [7.35].
sidered in the data presented above. This phenomenon Tests conducted by Schulte [7.36] on 0.125 inch thick
remains to be investigated more thoroughly. It is not aluminum and CFC panels showed that for the same
α factor that was considered in previous tests to deter- applied test, temperatures of 100 to 150*C were reached
mine burn-through thresholds. on the interior surfaces of CFC panels while aluminum
Ignition thresholds of titanium skins: Oh and Schnei- panels of the same thickness reached teperatures of
der have similarly determined the coulomb ignition 160 to 200*C. Panels of 0.25 inch thickness reached
thresholds for titanium skin materials of various thick- temperatures of 70 and 80*C respectivily. The major
difference was noted in the time to reach peak tem- nesses, as shown in Fig. 7.13 [7.341. They and other re-
The CFC panels responded 100 times slower confirmed that, since the melting point perature. searchers have
183