within α par- that aircraft, or at least aircraft ognizing
zones, characteristic tend to possess category, ticular
discussed should not be con- though the zones to be
in the lightning strike zones discussed fused with the
effects of lightning. dealing with direct chapters
consider of α magnetic field zone, As an example
aircraft. It can be regarded of α fighter the cockpit
exposed primarily α magnetically open region as
aperture-coupled magnetic fields. Within reasonable
all fighter aircraft probably have approximately limits,
cockpit. the in field magnetic same the
characteristic zone of equipment type Another
for- located in the bays equipment would be fighters
behind the rtdome. All such equip- ward section and
perhaps, ment bays tend to be alike, the differences,
the type of fasteners used to hold relating mostly to
α wing pro- in place. The structure within the covers
of magnetic field fundamentally different vides α type
bays. either the cockpit or the forward equipment from
to divide possible seem would it Accordingly,
of typical zones, into α relatively small number aircraft
inten- field magnetic or characteristic ruling α assign to
simplified rather provide to and zones, those to sity
transient bles or nomograms listing the characteristic
be induced in wiring of α given length. likely to
This concept of dividing an aircraft structure into
assigning α ruling different magnetic field zones and
magnetic field strength to each zone, while imper-
dif- formulated at present, is fundamentally no fectly
practice of designing ferent from the civil engineering
α standard (generally worst α structure to withstand
may differ loading the wind While loading. case) wind
the structure, the task widely at different points on
every strac- the wind loading on each and calculating
expensive member would probably be sufficiently tural
offset the savings that one might realize that it would
each structural member to its own specific by tailoring
wind loading.
as Applied to the Space 14.5.1 Zones
Shuttle
shield- into an aircraft of dividing concept This
[14.1]. Shuttle the Space on first used was zones ing
The so defined are shown in Fig. 14.17. The zones
to each of these zones electromagnetic fields assigned
knowl- initially estimated by α group of engineers were
These magnetic about lightning interactions. edgeable
during the course of an exten- fields were then refined
investigation. sive analytical
amplitudes assigned to each The magnetic field
on the analytical study, are given these zones, based
two corn- The fields were divided into in Table 14.1.

to ,.
Α EXIT POINTS THROUG MOS PROBABLE LIGHTNING ARC ENTRY AND .
SHUTTLE ZONES
SAY PAYLOAD 6 DECK FLIGHT of SAY 7 AFT EQUIPMENT EQUIPMENT BAY 2 CENTER
ENGINE COMPARTMENT EQUIPMENT BAY CLOWER I
VERTICAL 9 STABILIZER FORWARD TOP 4
wIN σ FORWAR C-TE 10
vehicle. Fig. 14.17 Shielded zones within the Orbiter
Table 14.1
Fields in Different Zones Magnetic
Orbiter Shuttle Space the of an
Fields Diffusion Fields Aperture
(Α/μ) Β.component (Α/μ) Α.component Zone ta-
800 1200 1
60 200 2
200 0 -3
1]Σ 4 so
100 50 1
280 300* 6
150*
570 50 7
680 8 200 of
200 3700 9
65 300 10
*"No payload
referring to fields coupled ponents, an Α-component
referring to apertures and α Β-component through
through metal surfaces. The fields coupled by diffusion
tend to have the same Α-component of the field would
magnetic changing waveshape as the external rapidly
α much have would component the Β- while field,
waveshape. slower
the waveforms of the In the Space Shuttle study
as shown on components were taken to be different
case the field intensity was Figure 11.14. In each
current passing α worst case 200 kA lightning based on
field amplitudes of the Orbiter vehicle. The through
the maximum amplitudes calculated Table 14.1 were
entry or exit the possible lightning current for any of
be claim for accuracy can of points. While no particular
the Orbiter, made about any individual point within
least seem reasonable. the field amplitudes at
385