discussed further in §11.4.
The redistribution phenomenon also leads to the --- u
internal currents flowing for much longer times; longer
even than the duration of the lightning current. The
overall result is that indirect effects in α aircraft[ CFC
can be more severe and harder to deal with than in α
metal aircraft. Tests on α test bed fuselage for α CFC\
aircraft showed that by the time an external injected
current had decayed to half value (82ps), 90% of the
injected current was flowing on metal objects inside
the fuselage. (α)
Because CFC aircraft are relatively new, only α
few test programs have been undertaken to measure 50 us--
1
the voltages and currents induced by lightning. Α few ....-
examples of voltages and currents will be given here,
mostly and to illustrate the redistribution effects to
illustrate the time scale over which they take place. : : . :.: .
illustrations proprietary, the data is Since the source
and §8.7.2. as those in §8.7.1 will not be as extensive
of the aircraft Aircraft structure: The general nature
- -
structure for which the following measurements were
taken is shown in Fig. 8.31. The main shell of the (β)
aircraft was made from laminates. CFC In the nose
of the aircraft was an avionic equipment bay built Fig. 8.32 Waveshape of current injected into
with aluminum shelves upon which the equipment was aircraft. CFC
wave of (α) Front contact good electrical made shelves These mounted.
of wave (β) Tail the fuse- part of In the main fuselage. CFC with the
lage were metal rails upon which seats were mounted
and various electrical power wires and metal tubing. Current on metal members: Current flowing on one
of the metal tracks used to hold the seats is shown in
Fig. 8.33(α) and current on an aluminum duct carry-
ing air for heating is shown on Fig. 8.33(β). If the
injected current were 200 kA, there would be 11 kA
gr/ε fuselaee and 6.2 kA, respectively, on these members. These
encountered be would than higher much currents are objects metallic
mem- particular on these flow They aircraft. in α metal & aft fore Sfbers ρ running
because they are the ones that have α fairly low
meas'ured current resistance. The currents themselves present no haz-
ard to those objects since the current flows for only
α short time, but allowance must be made to ensure
that the current can flow without any sparking. The
Fig. 8.31 General nature of CFC aircraft upon current is also seen to reach its peak long after the
which tests were made. injected current has begun to decay. This is because
the inductive time constant, ρ = is longer than LIR,
the corresponding time constant of the fuselage of the
Waveshape of Injected current: The aircraft was aircraft.
tested by injecting current pulses into the nose and
taking the current off the rear. The current, Fig. 8.32, Current on power α bus: Current on one of 28 V
had α double exponential waveshape with α time to power return wires is shown on Fig. 8.34. If the cur-
peak of 6 ps and α decay to half value of 84 Vari- ps. rent injected into the aircraft were 200 kA, there would .
ous peak amplitudes were used, ranging from kA 1 to be 2.04 kA flowing in this wire. This is also α current
10 kA. Fig. 8.32 shows α current pulse with α peak considerably higher than would flow in α comparable
of I kA. This waveform is nearly identical to current circuit on α metal aircraft. The current did not reach
Component Α. its peak until nearly 300 by which time the injected ps,
241