(a)
lightning are
tank products skin- are -uel
-the uadapter
, r Jscribed
fasteneradapter
metal potential arc e
Srgcontacting
metal chain lanyar
COW
lightning arc
• s • cap surface notched metal
products arc fuel tank skin
fastener
potential arc at source-
"-0
ring seal- plastic
plastic lanyar
Fig. Fuel 7.20 filler cap designs.
(a) Unprotected
(b) Protected
A lightning protected cap typically uses a plas-
tic insert so that there are no metallic faying surfaces
across which sparking can occur. If a lanyard is re-
quired, it is made of plastic since one source of spark-
ing on filler caps was found to be along the ball chain
used to retain the cap.
Lightning protected caps are generally designed to
be used in conjunction with mating adapters. An elec-
trically non-conductive O-ring provides a seal between
the plastic insert and the mating adapter to prevent
fuel leaks. When a strike to the cap occurs, the result-
ing lightning currenits arc from the cap to the adjacent
adapter, since the O-ring seal prevents direct electri-
cal contact between the two parts. The arcing creats a
pressure buildup at the O-ring. If the pressure is too
high, arc products could blow past the O-ring and into
the fuel vapor. In order to minimize pressure buildup,
a series of cutouts is made around the perimeter of
the cap surface so that arc products can vent to the
outside of the tank.
An alternative protection design replaces all the
metal parts of the cap with plastic, thus preventing
direct arc attachment and any arcing from taking place
at the O-ring seal.
Lightning protected caps should always be used if
there is any possibility that the cap may receive a light-
ning strike, i.e., if the cap ,nust be located in direct or
swept flash Zones 1A, or 2B. At least one spec- 1B, 2A,
192

ification, has been written describing MIL-C-38373B,
a lightning protected cap. If there is any doubt about
protection capability of the particular design, the
cap should be tested with its mating adapter as de-
in [7.28]. The interface between the filler cap
and the surrounding tank skin can also arc
and care must be taken to prevent such arcing from
fuel vapors. The methods employed are
discussed in §7.10.3.
7.6.2 Access Doors
Problems: Access panels or doors are found in nearly
all fuel tank designs to enable installation and main-
tenance of system hardware. Typical doors are shown
in Fig. 7.21. Since they are frequently in the external
skins, they are exposed to lightning strikes. Early tests
showed that sparking could occur at access doors not
specifically designed to tolerate lightning. Modifica-
tion procedures [7.48] were developed which prevented
sparking, even when the access doors were struck di-
rectly. Such modifications usually consist of some com-
bination of the following features:
1. Avoidance of metal to metal contact between
parts exposed to fuel vapor spaces.
2. Provision of adequate current conduction paths
between door and adapter and between adapter
and surrounding skin, away from fuel vapors.
This is usually via the fasteners, which are sep-
arated from vapor areas by O-rings, gaskets or
sealants.
3. Application of sealant to other potential arc or
spark sources, so as to prevent contact with fuel
vapors. Sealants are discussed in §7.6.3.
Protection techniques: Any design which allows the
door installation to tolerate the applicable lightning
environment while meeting other perfcrmance and
structural requirements is acceptable and there are
many design applications and approaches that have
proven satisfactory. Some acceptable access door de-
signs are shown in Figs. 7.22(a) through 7.22(d).
0-rings: Fig. 7.22(a) shows a common design in
which an O-ring, fitted in a slot in the doubler, pre-
vents arc products around the fastener from entering
the fuel vapor space. Instead, the arc products escape
to the outside. In addition, the access door riveted nut
plate (dome nut), doubler fastener, and the fillets have
been covered with polysulfide type fuel tank sealant to
contain the arc products occurring at these locations,
thus preventing them from contacting fuel vapor.