is not being electrically ignition occurs. The current
does not skin and the hot arc conducted through the
the the surface to burn through it. lie close enough to
is slightly is that the surface Usually all that happens
singed.
by may be explained that do occur The punctures
described attachment mechanism the basic lightning
occurs 6. Obviously, if α puncture in Chapters 3 and
in wall, fuel is placed an integral fuel tank through
and ignition with the lightning arc, direct contact
probable.
it is possible occur, does not if α puncture Even
ignite fuel by itself, streamer could that, an internal
Tests have been proven by test. though this has not
discharge) are not corona currents (glow shown that
against ignition there- Protection capable of ignition.
criteria be met: that two basic fore requires
1. Punctures must be prevented,
2. Internal streamers should be prevented.
in addition to other These criteria are, of course,
sources of ignition such as elimination requirements
joints across sparking or outlets vent to strikes from
this chapter. in elsewhere discussed
plastic with aircraft aviation General 7.48 Fig.
tips wing
prevention of in- puncture: Successful of Prevention
skin punc- to prevent λ streamers is necesry ternP
readily from sharp streamers form most tures. Because
number of metal corners, the conducting edges and
fuel tank α electrically non-conductive parts inside
those that possible, and be minimized whenever should
non- as far from electrically remain should be located
with smooth, and designed conductive skins as possible
Puncture of of sharp points. rounded edges instead
can also be prevented non-conductive skim electrically
protection materi- use of several possible through the
6. in Chapter thoroughly discussed more was als, as
include: These

or arc sprayed metals. 1. Flame
protection with α These provide very effective
2 0.5 kg/ν of approximately weight penalty
 2 is operator dependent. (0.1 lb/ft ). Application
wire mesh. 2. Woven
47 to 79 of aluminum wires, Typically, α mesh
per inch), is used. per cm (120 to 200 wires
 2 (0.05 is approximately 0.25kg/μ Weight penalty is
2 surfaces, but not work well on fiat lb/ft ). These
surfaces. compound contour on
fibers. Metallized 3
or fiberglass are Metallized fibers of aramid resin
painted. layer. May be used for the surface
protection above the of discussion detailed more Α
methods is presented in Chapter 6.
Fuel System Checklist 7.13
vari- on amount of information considerable Α
the in presented systems has been fuel of aspects ous
para- to these With reference paragraphs. preceding
to summa- is provided checklist the following graphs,
on attention the designer'σ points and to focus key rize
protec- lightning of fuel system aspects the important
tion:
and 2, where I in Zones tanks located the fuel 1. Are
their skins? contact may directly strikes lightning
(Chapter 5). If so,
time on these is the expected arc dwell (α) What
(§7.6). skins?
(β) If the tank is of metal construction, are the
melt-through? avoid to enough thick skins
(§7.6).
con- conductive composite If the tank is of (χ)
provided to struction, is adequate protection
puncture? (§7.8). prevent
directly to ac- an lightning arc attach (δ) Can α
lightning cap? If so, can the ces door or filler
the surrounding current be conducted into
tank? (§7.7). arcing inside the skin without
may fuel leak areas into which bay" 2. Are there 'dry
these arc or plumbing? If so, from adjoining tanks
1χ, and Id. to questions la, lb, also subject
in pipes located jettison outlets or Are fuel vent 3
swept or or IB) (Zones sones direct strike lA
214