of the cavity exposed to the magnetic field. The im-
τ• Δ distance α at be spaced will 11.40(β), Fig. age,
K) + + 11 [ON 1.5 0.wWaL im- the in and cunrent, the carrying face the behind
age the reflection of the external current will be of ._2
as the on produced field electric The polarity. opposite
(α) inner surface of the face exposed to the external # ι.σ cur- Λ + SO δ! +
current, α force to act will 11.40(χ), Fig. in shown rent,
the cav- interior of the circuit defining ir, around the
ity. The length of the loop involved will be the same δ? 04 Ξ 0δ
as the length of the cavity, and the width will be twice 6 .
the depth of the cavity. The internal voltage gradient - -2ε as δ) U
cur- inner the of product to the proportional be will
rent density and the resistivity of the face carrying the Λ 0.2 ) Id (ξ
Π, exhibit will earlier, described as and, external current
(β) described buildup penetration pulse the characteristic
/
in Fig. 11.7. K 0
xs τ as viewed be may voltage This Internal impedance:
impressed across α loop or cavity inductance: 06
4 j.o.2ξ K ρ (11.4J) 1Ei R+jwL. = Z
The resistance and inductance will both be gv/erned (χ)
by the effective characteristics of the loop defining the
cavity. Typical current paths and their characteristic Fig. 11.41 Typical current paths and characteristic
impedances are shown in Fig. 11.41. Some cavities impedances.
may be viewed as being sufficiently long and narrow (α) Long sheets
that they may be defined by parallel strips. Others (β) Rectangular box
are basically of rectangular or circular shape, or of (χ) Circular cylinder
some simple shape that may be approximated by an
equivalent circular cylinder. The inductance and re-
sistance of each configuration are shown. Each of the
inductance equations [11.28] has α correction factor,
log (κ), or K, that relates to the shape of the en- It will be seen, then, that the greater the number F'
closure. These correction factors are shown in Fig. of fasteners, the less the restriction of current flow and
11.42. the less resistance inserted into the current path. The
resistance introduced by the fasteners is important be-
and Covers fasteners: If the cavity is provided with cause it is frequently mucl, higher than the intrinsic
α removable cover, and if this cover is in the external resistance of the metal surface and because the resis-
current flow or is exposed to the external magnetic tance is not subjected to the skin effects that retard
field, the effects are as illustrated in Fig. 11.43. If the the buildup of current density on the inner surface.
cover is assumed to be of the same material and thick- An equivalent circuit of the cavity including the
ness as the rest of the face upon which it is mounted, effects of fasteners is shown in Fig. 11.44. R! is
the principal effects relate to the resistance of the fas- the equivalent resistance of the fasteners. Circulated
teners used to hold the cover in place. The covers through this resistance is the undistorted current fluw-
will seldom make good electrical contact to the rest ing in the exterior face of the fuselage. The sum of R
1
of the surface except at the fasteners themselves. Ac- and is equal to the intrinsic resistance of the loop R
2
cordingly, the external current flowing in the face will defining the cavity, the resistances being given by the
be constricted in the vicirity of the fastener and pass equations in Fig. 11.41. The external current will
from that face onto the cover through the fastener- develop α voltage across o)nly α portion of this resis-
The major effect of this constriction of current flow tance, since it flows in only α portion of the loop. Let-
is to introduce α lumped resistance into the electrical ting R, be the resistance through which the external
circuit, although there is α certain amount of influence current flows, that resistance may be assumed to be
on the inductance of the circuit whenever the current subjected to the current as retarded the pulse pen- by
is constricted. etration time constant. The two voltages developed
330