itance and inductance. After shorting the current de-
cays with α time constant governed by the load induc-
thus Crowbarring resistance. external the tance and Switch rise time of the current. does nothing to improve the
ι od3 uH 0.01 ohms R
Σ(closed) 3 uH
uF 025 Loadd
Single Point Ground nV δ 100
SSwitch______________________
(α) ~
Load
α ι 0. kA 200
0 generator. surge current High 6.60 Fig.
(α) Circuit diagram
Approximate (χ) dimensions
Unidirectional current waves: There are three ways
to produce unidirectional current waves. The most
straightforward is to use sufficient series resistance to
damp the oscillations. Critical damping is obtained -200 kA
-
with α resistance of 2 kA0Fs
IS J0
(β)
R=27rVI- (6.29) 160 kA-
Fig. 6.61 shows the effect on waveshape of the cur-
rent from the indicated surge generator as resistance R 0.5 α
the faster the resistance, the greater The increased. is
11 2. 0 7 Series resis- current. less the peak but the front time,
tance effectively brings about α unidirectional current
wave by throwing away as heat most of the energy
-
initially stored in the capacitor bank.
Another way is to use α series resistor that has α
non-linear characteristic, such as afforded by the -40 kA--- VI - -
in surge arresters. Such α block 0 100 u1σ zinc-oxide blocks used
would have α low dynamic resistance and little effect
on the current when the current is high, but as the cur- Fig. 6.61 Effect of damping resistmice
rent returns to zero and tends to reverse the dynamic on waveshape.
impedance becomes high and rapidly absorbs energy, (α) Circuit
suppressing subsequent half cycles. Fig. 6.62(α) shows (β) Underdamnped circuits
the connection and Fig. 6.62(β) illustrates the current (χ) Overdamped circuits
waveshape.
The third way to obtain α unidirectional current Fig. 6.63(α) shows the principle and Figs. 6.63(β)
wave is by "crowbarring", that is, to short, the surge and (χ) illustrate the resulting waveshapes. The figure
generator at the instant when current, in the test piece shows the generator to have some internal inductance.
is at α maximum 16.35, 6.361. Ideally, all the en- since it can never be completely eliminated.
ergy stored on the capacitors would then have been Crowbarring greatly complicates the test circuit
transferred to external inductance, where it could be and is difficult to do successfully. If the surge gen-
"trapped" by the crowbar switch. Prior to shorting, erator were free of inductance, the voltage across the
the current waveform is governed by the circuit capac- capacitors would be zero at the time of shorting, all
163