An example of an aperture-coupled field is shown dimensions of the aperture, if an attempt is made to
in Pig. 12.11 in which the elliptical fuselage described calculate the fields near the aperture the results will be
in Section 10.5.4 has been approximated two sheets βý too high, becoming infinite at zerm distance from the
of infinite size, one containing the aperture 'and an- plane of the aperture. Correction factors may be [12.9]
other serving as the reflecting surface. The figure applied to the above equations if the distance from the
shows only the top half of the field pattern, the field aperture is not large, Fig. 12.12 showing an example.
in the bottom half being symmetrical with the top Formulations of the problem can also be devised that
half. The aperture considered was 0.2 mn high by 0.1 are not based on the use of infinitesimal dipoles, but
in wide, the long axis of the ellipse being oriented at α simple rule of thumb is to recognize that the field at
right angles to the plane of the figure. The short cir- the piane of the aperture cannot be greater than half
cuit field strength (the field that would exist if the the magnitude of the short circuit field and simply to
aperture were not there) was taken IM) Α/μ, as the ignore numerical answers that are larger.
field strength that would be produced by the afore-
mentionecd current 1000 Α fiowing axially along of the 4
elliptical fuselage The field strength that would exist
at the aperture was 80 Α/in, half of the short circuit
_VO field.
seen The field strength is to be inversely propor-
-___"__
tional to the cube of the distance from the aperture
in question. Accordingly, the aperture 3. to the point
coupled fields will be krv.ali.ed in spac, near the aper-
80. η/% fs tham troublesome less thus are apcortures Small ture.
large apertures, both berause of the decreased mag-
netic field strength associated with the corresponding
dipole and because of the lesser distance one must be 2-
removed from the aperture before the field strength be- 0.'
comes negligible compared to the field strength near
the aperture. 0.1
I
I //" ",, II/R
I 0
Σ0.5
Α/μ 0
1I&" I\
o.50 3.
I *0
ι'fs
1.0 Μ 0.5 0
Fig. 12.11 Fields coupled through an aperture.
Major axis oriented verticafly - !
(0.3 ξ 0.1 μ aperture).
Lmidtations 12.5.3 Q!τ. 0
circular aperture. Corrmwtion factors for α when the Fig. 12.12 is valid only The above formulation
point at which the field is to be calculated is at α dis- In terms (α) of 1IR.
tance from the aperture that 'σ large compared to the In terms of (β) hlIRO
34ρ