Τ
TG
.cuits 7
.itive. V
.. • ι,,• , ..•largely
Fig. 18.8 Tests on circuit elements.
used are generally studies upset such from Results
during circuit development. They cannot be used in
lieu of tests on full systems since there may be inter-
actions among the interconnected circuits that cannot
el- circuit protoype on individual by tests be revealed emeritas.
18.3 Τ~ransient Generators
of evaluation used for generators transient Most
indirect effects employ charged capacitors which are
discharged into waveshaping circuits. Much of the
technology is basically similar to that used in the 1940σ
and 1950σ for radar modulators and described in [18.3].
Some generators for complex waveforms use waveform
synthesizers and power amplifiers. Some generators
are designed for only single shot operation, though
some are designed to produce α series of similar pulses.
Very few operate continuously. Almost all generators
operate at power levels greatly exceeding those of nor-
mal laboratory signal generators,
18.3.1 Capacitor Discharge Generators
unidirec- either for be designed may Generators
tional output with α waveshape approximating
= - (18.1) E Eo(-at C-τ)
or for oscillatory output, with α waveshape approxi-
mating
470

_TE
(18.2)
=Eo(ε-*τ)ain(2lrft)
Specifications for oscillatory waves sometimes express
the waveshape as
Eo [ε-(wf'/Q)]sin(27rft) (18.3) = E
with governing Q the rate of decay of the oscillations.
Q Specifications commonly cite Q values of 6 to =
24.
Unidirectional transients: Basic unidirectional cir-
are shown in Fig. 18.9. That of Fig. 18.9(α)
uses series R and C to shape the front of the wave
and has an output impedance that is largely capac-
That of Fig. 18.9(β) uses series Λ and R to
resistive. The component values are approx- shape the front and has an output impedance that is
imately those required to produce the long duration
voltage wave discussed in §16.6.2. Additional factors
governing waveshape were discussed in §6.8.
+ DC-- Hg ih
20 0 _ C
rI. F ... 1,.Τ 0. F
-I
High DC
7 ---! !Ξ,
σ OOJAH v I
CjL1I Flo
.. ..
Fig. 18.9 Generators for unidirectional transients.
(α) RC waveshaping
(β) LR waveshaping
Both circuits assume the energy storage capaci-
tor C to be connected to α charging supply through α
resistance sufficiently high that the characteristics of
the charging supply do not affect the waveshape. They
also use α series switch Σ to connect the energy storage
capacitor C to the waveshaping circuit and produce α
positive output for α positive charging voltage. Re-
versing the positions C of and Fig. 18.10, results in Σ,
α negative output for α positive input.
C
_
Fig. 18.10 Grounded switch configuration.