H ι
..
η δ ..... .... voc
.......
Lw Rw
1Isc
(β)
Fig. 14.7 Response to magnetic induction.
(α) Voc
(β) 2".χ li
2 - in involved loop the of area Α =
Α θ in Fig. 14.7 =
47ρ ξ 10-Τ = Io
 webers - linked flux total 0 =
 Α/rn magnetic field intensity H = -
τ = time - σ
Ipendent φ
in inches: If and are measured 1 η
(14.9) lh 1011 Ξ 8.11 V.,δ = dance
where
length - in I =
in ground plane - above height = η
H magnetic field intensity Α/rn = - τ = time - -
to proportional thus is voltage The induced
and ground above height its wire, the cf length
reduced can be Voltage field. magnetic the of strength
plane ground the to close cables or wires keeping by
magnetic the where α path along them routing by and
further discussed are points These is low. strength field
15. Chapter in
elemen- an 15, Chapter in be discussed will As
of consists α wire in voltage induced for model tary .
of one end center or the at placed source voltage
loads of the with some representation wire, along
then voltage The induced ends of the wire. two the
The ends of the wire. the loads at the divides between
appears across the load with highest lazLiest voltage

case analysis, one can consider impedance. For worst
the other end the wire to be grounded with one end of
then appear at the circuited. All the voltage will open
open circuit end of the wire.
Short circuit current: The maximum current is that
of the wire or cable are which flows when both ends
to the Vehicle structure through α low or connected
The short circuit cur- zero impedance, Fig. 14.7(β).
rent is then mostly affected the wire by inductance
is inductance, only treating and,
(14.10) V -- ,dt. 8= 0
where
amperes =
cable - H self-inductance of wire or = Λ
circuit induced voltage V - Voc open =
τ = time - σ
that drives the current, The induced voltage, Vo.,
the but height, cable the to proportional directly is
current, of flow the impedes that Λ inductance cable
of the cable height. is proportional to the logarithm
are proportional to cable length. The Both Voc and Λ
is practically inde- is that short circuit current result
of the length of the cable and only moderately
height of the cable above ground. dependent on the
imped- low α have might wire individual An
load by being connected to α semiconductor, in
directly short circuit current might flow which case the
semiconductor and its bias source. If the through the
α low input intentionally designed to have circuit is
if the current is there may be no damage impedance,
circuit cur- short available large. Maximum not too
rent is an important point to consider when selecting
surge protective devices.
Multiple If α group of wires is involved, Fig. wires:
ex- that is calculated so voltage induced the 14.8(α), the
(coin- group of conductors entire the between isting the
structure. vehicle the and cable) or bundle the prising
each on voltages the impedances, load Assuming equal
de- not will and same the about be will wires the of
or bundle the within wire the of location the on pend
cable.
(also voltages Line-to--line voltages: Line-to-line α
than be less will voltages) or circuit differential called the
α factor of 10 generally by voltages, at line-to-ground
individual conductors to 46 dB, because 200, or 20 to
thus and are often twisted, close together are usually
reducing the total loop area.
377