.The
puncture voltage of some typical fiberglass skins
used in radomes is shown in Table 6.3.
Unprotected radomes are most often punctured,
partly because of the low dielectric strength of non-
conductive composites and partly because the radar
antenna must, of necessity, protrude beyond any sur-
rounding metal structure. This, in turn, means that
the electric field is concentrated around the metal
structure of the radar and that electrical streamers can
most easily form there. The mechanism of puncture is
shown in Fig. 6.27.
Table 6.3
Typical of Voltages Breakdown Impulse
Fiberglass Skin Materials
Skin Construction Total Breakdown
Thickness Voltage
fiberglass 0.163 cm 21 kV One sheet
in 0.0o4
filament-wound fiber- kV 180 Two 1.27 cm
glass tape skins enclosing 0.50 in
polyimide foam filler
Two fiberglass skins cm 70 kV 0.99
enclosing foam filler 0.39 in
0
electric field
in radome
internal
s-- treamner S+Solid
external
Sstreamer
Fig. 6.27 Mechanism of puncture of a radome.
Protection of non-conductive composites: Whether
or not a structure needs to be protected against light-
ning depends both on its function and the conse-
quences of damage. If loss of the structure does not
create a serious hazard, then protection may not be
required. For example, the loss of a small tail cone
or empennage tip may not endanger the aircraft and
these can be left unprotected and repaired or replaced
in the event of a lightning strike. The loss of a nose
radome during IFR conditions, however, would prob-

ably not be acceptable since loss of the radome might
also lead to the radar being disabled.
There are two basic ways of providing protection
for non-conductive composites. One employs diverter
strips or bars on the exterior surface to intercept, light-
ning flashes, while allowing the skin to be transparent
to electromagnetic waves. This is the approach used
for protection of radomes and some antenna fairings.
The other method is to apply an electrically conductive
material over the exterior of the structure. This latter
method provides the most effective lightning protec-
tion and should be employed whenever possible. It
also provides improved protection of enclosed systems
effects. against indirect
With Diverters 6.3.3 Protection
There are two types of diverter: solid and seg-
mented. If properly applied, either type significantly
reduces the number of lightning related punctures (of
a radome for example), but they are not 100% effec-
tive. Occasional punctures of protected radomes will
still occur. Application of diverters will be discussed
with particular emphasis on radomes, because that is
where they are most commonly used, but the discus-
sion is equally applicable to any insulating structure,
such as wingtips made from non-conducting compos-
ites.
Solid diverters: Solid diverters are continuous metal
bars placed on the outside of a skin to intercept a
lightning flash and conduct the current to an adjacent
metallic structure. They also provide some electro-
static shielding from the external electric field for ob-
jects under the skin, and thus they tend to inhibit the
growth of streamers from these internal objects. Fig.
6.28 shows solid diverters mounted to the outside of a
radome.
diverters should be designed to conduct,
without damage, the lightning current of the zone in
which the part is located, 2 typically 200 kA, 2 x 101 A s
"for diverters on a nose radome in Zone 1A. Solid di-
verters are usually made of aluminum, with a rect-
angular cross section sufficient to permit conduction
of the current without excessive tmperature rise. For
mechanical reasons, and to prevent holes for fasteners
from unduly reducing the cross-sectional area, most
 2 diverters have cross-sectional areas of about 0.5 cm
2 (0.08 in , though some are larger. A common design
is 3.2 mm (0.125 in) thick by 12.7 mm (0.50 in) wide,
but thicknesses of up to 6.4 mm (0.25 in) have been
used. The diverters are usually attached to the skin
with screws spaced approxjmately 15 cm (6 in) apart.
It is important that the diverters be securely fastened
to the skin to prevent their loss due to rain erosion
139