fuel and other flight essential systems (FAR 25.954)
and regulation new forthcoming Α 25.1309). (FAR
companying advisory circular [5.41 will place further
emphasis on protection of electrical and avionic sys-
to pertaining of α regulation absence The tems.
such mean that course, not, of does system specific
parts be addressed, since all does not need to α system
protection require- the basic fall under of the aircraft
meat.
The FAR'σ state only the functional requirements,
and in the most general and broad terms. Translation
technical design goals is of these terms to specific
to the manufacturer of the aircraft or system, with
in the FAAXor aidthority'vested review and, approval
its Designated Engineering Representativeop (DER'σ).
protection design and lightning environment for The
the steps in §5.5 and is described certification purposes
cer- and protection the lightning to complete necessary
in §5.6. are described tasks tification
Design for ing Environment Lightnd The 5.5
and Verification
lightning environ- Bofor describing the specified
to how as is in order discussion some for aircraft, ment
it evolved.
Standards Lightning Early 5.5.1
The first industry to experience lightning prob-
lems, and to establish the need for standardization
α lightning environment for design and test purposes,
was the electric 'utility industry. Shortly after over-
head power transmission and distribution lines became
widespread, it was apparent that lightning would be
severe problem., Power transformers, generators, mo-
tors and switching devices experienced damage from
voltage and current surges due to lightning strikes
the power lines. Research progranms to quantify natu-
ral lightning electrical characteristics were initiated
utility companies and equipment manufacturers such
as General Electric Company and Westinghouse Elec-
tric Company.
Shortly thereafter, standards emerged which de-
fined lightning surge voltage and current levels to
withstood by power system apparatus. Extensive lab-
oratory test facilities were constructed to enable equip-
meat to be tested to verify ability to tolerate these
standards. As power transmission voltages increased
and associated equipment became more sophisticated,
improvements were necessary in lightning protection
technology and the need for better information on the
natural lightning environment continued. As α result,
an extensive amount of research into lightning phe-
nomenology and its effects on electric power systems
and apparatus was carried out during the period 1920
to 1980.

6
Insulation coordination: This research led to α corn-
coordination, insulation called philosophy, prehensive ac-
dealing with the lightning protection of electri power
equipment. It incorporates standardized voltage lev-
lev- standardized designed, is equipment els to which α
and on apparatus proof tests for procedures els and
equpment, performance of protective standards on the
All ε.quipment surge arresters. lightning and such as
associated with electric power transmission and distri-
bution facilities is designed, tested and protected in
accordance with these industry wide lightning stan-
result is that whereas thousands of light- left dards:' The
ning strikes occur drily to electric utility systems, very
'to lightning. are now attributable few power outages
I,
for Lightning standards on aircraft: Early research
The Lovettsville, α later date. emerged at aircraft
re- 4 prompted Chapter in Virginia accident described
aircraft on lightning of effects possible into the search
upon called were laboratories %tility the of several and
lightning expertise. Dur- test facilities and to provide
involving accidents, years, several other next 15 ing the
ignition of fuel vapors, were thought to have resulted
test- and research Additional strikes. lightning from
Most accidents. by these were Prompted ing programs
Electric the General at was conducted of this work
Mas- Pittsfield, in Laboratory High Voltage Company
sachusetts and the National Bureau of Standards High
Voltage Laboratory near Gaithersburg, Maryland, un-
of der sponsorship of airciaft manufacturers, the Civil
Aeronautics Board and the National Advisory Corn-
mittee for Aeronautics (NACA), the predecessor of
NASA.
α
airplane standards: Original The first airplane light-
ning protection design and test standards were pub-
to lished by the Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) in its
[5.7] and by the US Depart- Advisory Circular 25-3
MIL-Β- by ment of Defense (DOD) in military standard
5087 [5.1]. Both of these documents appeared in the
mid 1950'σ. reprinted somewhat later as AC 25-3, AC
20-53, dealt exclusively with lightning protection of
airplane fuel systems. MIL-Β-5087 dealt exclusively
be with provision of electrical bonding in airplane struc-
tures and apparatus. These were the areas of greatest
concern at the time.
Defined lightning threat: and MIL-Β-5087 AC 20-53
each defined the lightning threat as α 200 kiloampere
(kA) peak current with α unidirectional waveshape, α
rate-of-rise of kA/ps and 100 α decaiy time to 50%
5 0 of peak amplitude of about ps. This represented
α severe first return stroke in α cloud-to-earth flash.
also defined an intermediate and cont inuing AC 20-53
current component, but MIL-Β-5087 included only the
return stroke in its defined environment.
94