through the external load impedances produces α volt-
age between the signal conductor and the shield. An
alternate source of coupling, shown in Fig. 15.20(β),
involves the voltage on the shield itself. Noise currents
flowing through the external impedance of the shield
may, if the shield is not perfectly grounded, produce
α voltage between the shield and any external ground
structure.
------- O----R
Σ0 0
_ ,' ... - Α
-------- -
(β). ..
Fig. 15.20 Coupling via capacitive leakage
through holes,
(α) From an external source
(β) From voltage on the shield
shield Leakage due to voltage: External impedances
between the signal conductor and the shield, as well
an the inherent capacitance between the shield and
the signal conductor, force the signal conductor to as-
sume nealy the same potential as the shield. Because
the signal conductor is then at α potential different
from the surrounding ground, dielectric flux can pass
from the signal conductor through the holes in the
shield and to ground, the dielectric cu,-rents again giv-
ing rise to α voltage between the signal conductor and
the shield.
for Equivalent circuit capacitive leakage: An equiva-
lent circuit for capacitive leakage, Fig. 15.21, is simply
α transfer capacitance, (or transfer admittance, C ,
12
in the frequency domain). It depends on jwC,,, the
total area of the holes in the shield and on the capaci-
tances between the shield and the conductor, and C ,
12
the shield and the ground return path, Cy. The trans-
fer capacitance is not very sensitive to weave angle, as
was ihown in Fig. 15.17.

C
codtr
shield
Fig. 15.21 Equivalent circuit for caacitive leakage.
1
Determination of leakage capacitance: Vance [15.6]
also gives expressions relating transfer capacitance to
shield construction. Some cables use α layer of metal
foil, or α layer of metallized Mylar under the braid to
improve the optical coverage and to reduce the transfer
admittance. The transfer properties of such shields are
best determined by measurement.
Relative order of importance: In most cases the ef-
fects of magnetic leakage are probably more important
than the effects of capacitive leakage.
shown as shields, Tape-wound shields: wound Tape
in Fig. 15.22, are often used where flexibility of the
shielded cable is required. The shield may be formed
either from α narrow metal sheet spiraled around the core or from α carrier of fine wires, again spiraled
around α core. Flexible armor and flexible conduit,
which is normally used primarily for mechanical pro-
tection, may also be analyzed as tape-wound shields.
The tape-wound, or spiral-wound, shield is α rather
poor shield for preventing coupling of current from the
shield onto the internal conductor becaus the shield
tends to behave as α solenoid wound about the internal
conductors. There is thus α rather large transfer cou-
pling term relating the internal voltage to the shield
current. This is particularly true if the tape is wound
without any overlap because in this case the entire ca-
ble current is forced to spiral around the core.
Fig. 15.22 Tape-wound shield.
Vance [15.6j analyzes α cm I radius cable wouvd
with 0.25 mm thick, I cm wide copper tape, the tape
applied without an owrlap. The dimensions of the ca-
ble are thus similar to those of the braided-wire shield
used for the calculations of Fig. 15.17. The transfer
407