oscillatory rate-of-change the fast of Advantages
wave:
simulated it frequencies of band narrow a Over 1.
aper- the effects, indirect of aspect important one
fields coupling of electromagnetic ture
low- from relatively available was amplitude High 2.
is energy little since generators surge energy
resistance. waveshaping in
of the threat test a full be nearly It could 3.
effects. coupling frequency
Disadvantages:
1. It overemphasized (and deliberately so) one of
lightning currents. of components frequency
coupling low-frequency It underemphasized 2.
resistance of vehicle effects the particularly fects,
fields. of magnetic penetration diffusion and the
equipment avionic to damaging was potentially 3. It
test. under the aircraft on
simu- a during to damage Equipment susceptible
be damaged could obviously test lightning lated
during damage but flash, lightning by an actual
is undesirable. tests development
current fast of the drawbacks and advantages The
current slow the by reverse in mirrored are waveform
waveform.
wave: oscillatory amplitude the high of Advantages
frequencies, band of a narrow over 1. It simulates,
effects. of electromagnetic coupling the resistive
low- available from relatively is 2. High amplitude
generators. energy surge
lower test of full threat a It can approach 3.
for light- at least effects, coupling resistive quency
amplitude. to average strokes of low ning
Disavantages"
one of so) (and deliberately It overemphasipes 1.
current. of lightning frequencies component
penetra- diffusion simulate correctly not It may 2.

fields. of magnetic tion
the for test full-threat a constitute not does It 3.
flashes. lightning amplitude higher
extrap- requires amplitudes low at obtained Data
present be would that effects the to give olation
amplitude. current lightning full at
lost
equipment. avionic to damaging is potentially It 4.
ca- [13.5] A generator testing: level pulse Moderate high
an through or 7 kA 6 of producing currents of pable
stage two a is It 13.13. Fig. in sketched is aircraft
pF. of 4 capacitance erected an having circuit Marx
aircraft is bed a test through waveform The current
the shown in Fig. 13.14, the test bed aircraft being de-
voltage when delivering Operating in (13.5]. scribed
about apparently was 13.14 Fig. of pulse current the
20 pF erected of similar generator total. A ef- 150 kV
resis- a circuit kV and at 150 operated capacitance,
a peak capable of producing be 4 ohms would tance of
waveform. similar and 30 kA of current
aircraft performing to two advantages are There
with testing that when One is levels. with such tests
imposed stress the (30 kA) generators level moderate
am- the lower by imposed near that is aircraft on the
more and Another, flashes. lightning natural plitude
scaling or of the amount is that advantage, important
is responses level full threat to estimate extrapolating
tests involves 6 kA kA from to 200 Scaling not great.
from kA 200 to scaling while 33:1 of extrapolation an
6.7. of extrapolation an involves tests kA 30
is machines with such to testing One drawback
lo- to remote transportable not readily they are that
possible. is Transport on aircraft. for tests cations
at the remote and re-erection disassembly involves but
radi- that has shown experience is that site. Another
machines in such switches spark gap the ation from
into test, and under aircraft into the tends to couple
the obscures partially and instruments, measuring the
larger The observation. under and currents voltages
or agaast it is to shield difficult the more machine the
radiation. undesirable this suppress fre-
that the tests Many of testing: pulse level Low
surge been done with on aircraft have been done have
of es- practice The 1000 amperes. of 200 - currents
level with lower tests from response aircraft timating
initially described as pulses was current the unidirectional
Technique" (LTA) Analysis Transient "Lightning the
13.6 13.3 and (13.2, traced in is its development and
performed been have tests Most commonly, 13.91. -
362