No practical thickness of paint is sufficient to pro- There are several aspects of windshield and canopy de-
vide metallic conduction of α full lightning current. In- signs which could make them susceptible to damage
stead, the paint acts mostly to guide α flashover across and designers should verify that these conditions do
the coated surface and the lightning current is then not result in safety of flight hazards.
carried mcre in the resulting arc than in the coating Windows and windshields are fabricated from
of conductive paint. glasses, acrylics, and polycarbonates, or some combi-
Conducting paint films are least effective if there nation of these materials. These materials all have
is some conducting object under the surface of the in- higher dielectric strengths than the non-conductive
sulating surface being protected. In such α case, the composites. Generally, conductive objects will not be
arc voltage -night be high enough to cause α puncture positioned close to the inside surface and thus there
through the insulating surface to that object. will be little tendency for α lightning flash to puncture
Conducting paint does have the virtue that it can the windows.
be applied to an existing surface, even one of corn- Lightning punctures can occur to the electrical
plex shape. Copper paints have been the most widely heating elements embedded in windshield laminates.
used. One of the most successful applications of copper
loaded paints has been in the protection of helicopter Electrically heated windshields: Electrical heating
rotor blades fabricated of non-conductive composites. elements embedded within laminated windshields are
Α coating of conductive paint approximately 0.1 mm used to clear icing and fogging. Typical configurations
(0.003 - 0.005 in) applied under the finish coat of paint are shown in Fig. 6.38. Heating elements are either
has been shown to prevent punctures of the blade skin. fine metal wires or metal films, powered from either 28
Paints have been less successful on blades with metal volt dc or 115 volt ac systems.
spars or embedded heater wires because sufficient volt- Since the wires are of small diameter and arranged
age builds up along the conducting paint to puncture in zig-zag patterns, an electric field directed through
to the internal conductors. The mechanism is sketched the glass is concentrated at those wires and can result
on Fig. 6.37. in puncture of the glass ply and conduction of light-
Conductive paints are the least desirable of light- ning currents directly into the heating elements and
ning protection methods, partly because of this volt- the power circuits. Electric fields can be produced ei-
age buildup problem and also because they may erode ther by an approaching lightning leader or by electrical
away when exposed to intense rain or hail. charge that collects on the outside of the window as the
aircraft flies through precipitation. Puncture should
provide they because films metal with less likely metalpaintbe metal paint less tendency for the electric field to concentrate at
j ι--___ points. -
V result from could that hazards Other potential
- - R- puncture of the outer ply of the windshield are illus-
contained partially first is the 6.39. The trated in Fig.
hTatr wire shock wave. This is always sufficient to shatter the ex-
inner to shatter the sometimes sufficient terior ply and
ply as well. If that happens, particles may be blown
directly into the pilot'σ face.
of direct conduction is hazard potential Another
very high surge currents into the aircraft'σ electric
power distribution system, often after damaging the
source. same the from loads powered electrical
Fig. 6.37 Voltages developed along metal loaded Protection methods: One method of eliminating
pamnt. these problems is to de-ice the windshield with hot air
Windshields, and Windows Canopies 6.4 instead of electrical heating elements. Removing the
heating elements eliminates the most frequent cause
Windshields, canopies, and side windows are of- of windshield puncture and eliminates the conducted
ten located in direct and/or swept stroke attachment surge problem.
regions, Zones ]Α or Lightning damage to wind- The following approaches can be followed to re- 2Α.
shields has not been frequent, but at least one accident duce or eliminate the hazards if electrical heating ele-
in the 1930σ has been attributed to such damage 16.201. ments are present.
146