peres. For a tank constructed of CFC, there is a high
probability that this limit will be exceeded so that al-
ternatives, such as isolation links or electrically non-
conductive fuel and vent lines should be considered. If
the expected current levels in the plumbing are low,
as in metal & tank for example, it may be desirable
to evaluate the arc threshold level of the couplings to
compare with the currents which are expected. The
arc threshold level may be determined by inserting the
coupling into the light-tight chamber described previ-
ously. Initial test current amplitudes should be lower
than the expected arc threshold level of the coupling
with subsequent tests performed at increasing current
amplitudes until arcs are detected. Several coupling
samples should be tested to obtain a range of spark
threshold levels.
Fuel quantity probes: Capacitance type fuel quantity
probes, as described in §7.9, may become fuel ignition
hazards if the voltage potential difference developed
between them and the adjacent interior tank skin sur-
face is high enough to result in an air gap flashover.
This condition is most likely to occur in a fuel tank
constructed of CFC because of the high IR voltages
which can develop along the skin during a lightning
strike. It is advisable to perform voltage flashover tests
on a typical fuel quantity probe since the curves shown
in Fig. 7.27 can only be considered approximate.
The probe to be tested should be positioned ad-
jacent to a simulated fuel tank skin surface so that the
test setup accurately represents actual fuel tank probe
to skin air gap dimensions. Voltage impulses, such
as the 1.2 x 50 us voltage waveform B of [7.28] and
MIL-STD-1757A [7.63], should be applied by direct
connection to the probe with the simulated tank skin
connected to test circuit ground. Initial peak voltage
levels applied to the probe should be lower than the ex-
pected flashover level, with subsequent tests performed
at increasingly higher levels until voltage breakdown
results in an air gap flashover. The voltage flashover
level determined by these tests must be adjusted for
the air pressure level at cruising altitude,
7.14.3 Full Scale Tests on Tanks
Once tests have been completed on the hard-
ware and panel specimens described above, the fuel
tank should be ready for full scale tests to verify por-
tions of the design which cannot be obtained from the
panel and hardware tests. These include measurement
of adhesive bond line voltages, current amplitudes in
plumbing and vent lines, voltage potential differences
between fuel quantity probes and adjacent fuel tank
skin, and evaluation of potential ignition sources at
access doors, fuel filler caps, structural interfaces, fuel
217

quantity probes, and couplings in fuel and vent lines.
Measurement of voltage and current on wiring:
Measurements of voltages and currents induced in elec-
trical wiring and plumbing located within the tank
should be made. Test currents are conducted directly
into a typical lightning attachment location, such as
the wing tip. Current return wires are connected to a
typical current exit point, such as the wing root area.
Positioning of the return wires around the structure
is important since the magnetic fields associated with
them can affect the magnetic field environment within
the tank. Ideally, the internal tank field environment
should only be a function of the currents in the tank
skin as occurs during strike attachment, in a natural
lightning environment. Return wire influence can be
minimized by positioning the wires in a radial array
around the aircraft structure, as discussed in Chapter
13.
Measurement of current on plumbing: If possible,
measurements should also be made of currents in fuel
and vent lines for comparison with the spark threshold
levels determined during fuel and vent line hardware
tests and also for comparison with analyses of the cur-
rent levels expected in these tanks.
Measurement of voltage on fuel probes: Voltage dif-
ferences between fuel qua&-tity probes and the adjacent
interior skin surfaces can be measured and compared
to the voltage breakdown levels determined during
tests on the probes. Measurements at five fuel probe
locations within the NASA CFC wing showed vbltages
ranging from 1200 volts at the wing root probe to 3200
volts for the wing tip probe when currents of 190 kA
were conducted through the wing.
Tests to determine ignition sources: Ignition source
tests should be performed on a full scale wing to deter-
mine whether couplings, access doors, fuel filler caps
and adapters, structural interfaces, or fuel quantity
probes located within the tank will be the source of
fuel ignitions. Although tests will most likely have
been performed on individual fuel tank elements to
determine arc and spark threshold levels, it is also rec-
ommended that ignition source tests also be performed
on a full scale fuel tank. Current densities in materi-
als and current amplitudes in structural elements are
difficult to analyze for a complex full scale structure
and the numerous paths fhat can exist in a tank can
result in the existence of several locations where arcs
or sparks could occur. Full scale tank tests can also
verify the adequacy of the sealant application which is
usually an important part of the lightning protection
design. A more detailed discussion of procedures for