various al- at impulse sparkover voltage in expected accumulation. The resistivity charge frictional *prevent
of Paschen curve from the can be determined titudes of 106 to 108 be on the order should of these materials
first de- figure, one would To use the [7.52]. Fig. 7.28 prevent lightning to high is sufficiently This ohm-cm.
pd. gap distance, and of pressure the product termine charges. static to dissipate still adequate but currents,
figure. chart of the from the obtained can be Pressure conductive. lines too make the values would Lower
the sparkover to find it is desired if As an example, is a re- under development presently such system One
m (33 000 a 10 000 in) gap at 5 mm (0.2 of a voltage non-conductive of electrically duct system formable
first be would at this altitude pressure altitude, the ft) with aramid reinforced fluoropolymer, thermoplastic
product Hg. The 198.16 mm chart as from the found fibers.
Fuel Tanks in Electrical Wiring 7.9 pd 7.28, the From Fig. mm Hg. be 990.8 would then
5500 V. over at approximately spark gap would
may induce in an aircraft current Lightning Problems:
energy also ignition The vs altitude: energy a Ignition wiring enters wiring. If this in electrical voltages
tends to off- this effect pressure drops and as rises enough to be high voltages may induced tank, the fuel
pressure. sparkover voltage with in set the reduction a spark. cause
spark as much 20 times that have shown Tests [7.8] are typ- fuel tanks inside wires found Electrical
m (36 000 at 11 000 ignition to cause is needed energy fuel quantity for capacitance-type used ically those
rise might threshold The ignition at sea level. ft) as pumps or to operate used motors or electric probes
microjoules. 0.2 - 0.5 instead of millijoules, to 4 - 10 metal by totally enclosed wires are If these valves.
producing are capable of that voltages Most induced fields magnetic the internal ribs or spars, skins and
10 joules, more than can produce however, a spark, low. Electrical be relatively voltages will and induced
threshold the spark ignition rely on should not so one their instal- and probes, such as fuel quantity devices,
prevent problems. high to sufficiently to being designed been intentionally have lation hardware,
reported have been aircraft strikes to Lightning spark- voltages without high comparatively withstand
000 000 m (36 about 11 through levels at all flight be con- must however, system designer, The fuel ing.
000 ft) 5000 m (16 above occurances few ft), although de- or structural in material for changes alert tinually
Thus, it is currents. severe to have involved appear voltages to induccd excessive might permit sign that
small air gaps and certify sufficient to design probably electrical circuits. in fuel tank appear
10 000 m at about lightning environment at the SAE
without sparkover. (33 000 ft) number of gaps: A of small characterics Sparkover
should be Fig. 7.28 voltages of The sparkover voltages which made of the have been measurements
the curve relates since only approximate, considered fuel probe wiring, can induce in currents lightning
paral- as found in such field conditions, to uniform the voltages re- made of have also been Measurements
configurations, Other electrode plane electrodes. lel the elements between spark to occur cause a quired to
lower spark at would sharp point-to-plane, as a The such probes. quantity fuel capacitance-type of typical
mea- to actually It is best 25% less. perhaps voltages, much to be usually been found voltages have sparkover
gaps, preferably of specific voltage the sparkover sure the wiring, in be induced found to those than higher
as hardware, and the actual impulse voltages using [7.47] Stahmann and Newman, Robb, example, As an
also influence treatements surface and electrode shapes re- V were lenot 3000 of at dc voltages that found
ground at be made can tests The sparkover voltage. and the active between to jump spark a to cause quired
altitude for approximately corrected and pressure level probe fuel a capacitance-type of cylinders grounded
re- the percentage data by test ground by multiplying higher that even and wing, aircraft a KC-135 in found
flight gap at of the same voltage in sparkover duction gaps in the other over to spark were needed voltages
altitude. im- test using a similar [7.51] ran Plumer this probe.
to were required that 12 kV found voltages and pulse
air- of small design In practice, design: for Guidelines outer and inner the between to jump spark a cause
antic- over 100% of margin a incorporate should gaps will this like gaps Small typical probe. of a cylinders
for mechani- account to levels, voltage actual ipated im- and the voltage, dc than impulse more withstand
of contaminants, the effects tolerances, installation cal volt- an induced represents realistically more test pulse
sparkover gap small in variations and the statistical age.
be gap should a particular Thus, themselves. voltages
anticipated the twice altitude, at withstand, to sized were above Effects reported teits pressure: The air of
voltage. actual gap same the altitude, At flight level. ground at made
within installations cases, particularly some In the of because voltage at a lower down break would
clear- large unacceptably require tanks, this will CFC to be reduction of The amount air pressure. lower
199