Shortly thereafter, activities of the SAE committee.
Shuttle document, α companion Verifica- Lightning
published JSC 20007, was designated tion Document,
document set forth the requirement This [5.12].
It design. protection of the adequacy verifying
evaluating for and methods waveforms test scribed
indirect effects, against direct and protection equacy of
methods to be used and also included certain analysis
sections of effects evaluations. Some for indirect
issue of initial in the included had been 20007
07636.
Shuttle environment: The lightning envi- lilhtning
ronment contained in was also based upon 07636 JSC
the known cloud-to--earth environment described
Cianos and Pierce in [5.9]. The Shuttle lightning envi-
ronment differed somewhat from the later SAE stan-
dard in that several additional components were
cluded in the idealized current waveform. The peak
amplitude of the first return stroke (200 kA), total
charge transfer and other key aspects were nearly
same.
in waveform described The idealized JSC 07636
was intended for purposes of analysis and the intent
was never to require that it be duplicated for tests, per-
missible test waveforms being described in JSC 20007.
It was also described, for ease of analysis, by straight
line segments between specified break points. Some
have ascribed undue importance to the segments
breakpoints, even to the point of calling for test gener-
ators that produce straight line waveforms. Such was
never the intent of the idealized waveform.
Because of the immediate need to translate light-
ning standards into hardware design features, empha-
sis in the NASA Shuttle Document Lightning Criteria
was placed upon specific design guidelines. Less em-
phasis was placed on test methodology, as this tech-
nology area had not yet advanced to the point where
standardized methods could be described.
and ETDL'σ: The Shuttle lightning criteria TCL',
and verification documents were applied in design and
verification of the major Shuttle elements (Orbiter,
External Tank and Solid Rocket Boosters). These
documents placed α major emphasis on protection
against indirect effects, and required the establishment
of Transient Control Levels (TCL'σ) and Equipment
Transient Design Levels (ETDL'σ) for flight critical
electrical and avionic systems. The TCL/ETDL con-
cept, described in [5.13] and [5.14] is an attempt
provide α lightning protection philosophy for electronic
equipment similar in concept to the insulation coordi-
nation philosophy used in the electric power industry.
This methodology is becoming more widely used
in aircraft lightning protection design and certification
programs and establishment of TCL'σ and ETDL'σ

called for in the forthcoming ad- one of the procedures
of electrical and electronic on protection visory circular
is the key to successful This procedure systems [5.4].
fully is discussed more systems, and protection of these for
15. in Chapter de-
con- were analyses and of testing large amount Α ad.
transient to establish phase the design during ducted
wiring expected to occur in inter.-connecting levels
vehicles and to ver- α lightning Atrike to the during JSC
this tolerate could equipment critical that flight ify JSC
environment.
This was the first time that such α comprehensive
standard and set of specifications had been developed
and applied to α major aerospace program and this
by standardization activity was largely successful. Ba-
sic protection requirements such as electromagnetic
shielding of inter-connecting cables, electrical bonding
in- of critical structures, isolation of certain flight critical
circuits, separation of critical wiring types, and other
features flowed into contractor design and quality con-
the trol specifications from the Shuttle lightning criteria
and verification documents.
Recent Standardization Activities 5.5.5
After α period of industry-wide experience in the
late 1970'σ, DOD and FAA formally adopted the SAE
lightning criteria in several standards and specifica-
and tions pertaining to military and civil aircraft. In 1980,
DOD issued 757 [5.61 which embodied the MIL-STD-1
same lightning environment as published earlier in the
SAE report Lightning Test Waveforms and Techniques
Hardware [5.10]. The doc- for Aerospace Vehicles and
ument also discussed tests and test methods. In 1983
was reissued as revision Α with an ap- MIL-STD-1 757
pendix which contained additional discussion of each
test method. Shortly thereafter, in 1984, FAA issued
α revised version of designated Revision Α AC 20-53,
[5.2] which also embodied the SAE lightning criteria.
This advisory circular addresses lightning protection
of aircraft fuel systems.
MIL-STD-1795: In 1986 DOD issued its new MIL-
STD-1 795, Military Standard Lightning Protection of
and Hardware [5.5], which defines Aerospace Vehicles
lightning protection requirements for military aircraft.
This document supercedes the brief lightning require-
ments contained in MIL-Β-5087 referred to earlier.
Also, it places equal emphasis on indirect and direct
to effects protection and incorporates double exponential
descriptions of each of the lightning current compo-
nents for use in evaluation of indirect effects.
In 1985, FAA announced the proposal to estab-
lish α new regulation requiring lightning protection for
flight critical/essential electrical and avionic systems
is referred to in §5.3. Supporting this new regulation
08