Instruments and wiring on the control panels are i
thus in a region of inherently high magnetic field jj la
load strength. Conductors that run from overhead control source
panels (position A) to other instruments (position B)
are often run along the windshield center posts. They (a) .AA•
v are thus in a region of the most concentrated v magnetic • 7 - i-v
fields likely to be found on an aircraft, and accordingly ground R
they may have induced in them the highest voltages.
Wiring 16.5 and Grounding Practices
Practices should be chosen with forethought, prop-
erly illustrated and implemented, and not be left to
develop by chance. The design office should make sure (b)
that everyone knows what the design practices are and
all designs should be checked to ensure that they follow , ' ' ' ' ' '
practices good for resistance to lightning effects.
grounding. point Single 16.4 Fig. Practices Grounding Basic 16.5.1
(a) Coupling of structural IR voltage
voltage IR structural of Elimination (b) in- if necessary is equipment of grounding Proper
direct effects are to be controlled, but there are many Problems with single point grounding: While the sin-
factors to be considered. Best practice for one as- gle point ground concept avoids coupling of structural
pect often conflicts with best practice for other as- voltage rises, it does have problems, particularly in
pects. There is no single point on an aircraft that can regards to low level electronic circuits.
be called "Ground" and compatibility problems are
not resolved just by making a wire connection to an 1. It does not eliminate the high frequency compo. 0
"equipotential ground plane." The closest approxima- nent of voltage rises.
tion to an equipotential surface will be found on the
inner surface of a shielding enclosure or the inner sur- 2. It eliminates the low frequency component of volt-
face of a properly terminated wire shield, places where age rises only by subjecting equipment to a com-
the of lightning induced noise currents is low. mon mode voltage. The common mode voltages density
equipment. electronic for excessive be may follows: as are considerations basic Some
Aircraft structure as return path: a Lightning current 3. Long ground leads may be involved. These leads
flowing through the structure of an aircraft produces have impedance, resistance and inductance, and
voltage rises which can couple to internal circuits. His. lightning current flowing through these leads pro-
torically, experience has shown that the structure of duces dangerous voltages.
metal aircraft can be used successfully as a return
circuit for power distribution, but aircraft structure When investigations have been made of light-
should never be used as a return path for signal or ning induced damage to electronic equipment it is fre-
control circuits. Aircraft using large amounts of com- quently found that single point ground a concept has
posite materials for the structure should use separate been carried to extremes, or that it was applied with-
dedicated return wires for power circuits. out recognition of the common mode voltage problems
that are entailed. For electronic circuits a multipoint
grounding: Single point Single point grounding, Fig. ground concept is generally to be preferred.
16.4, prevents the low frequency component of the
grounding: voltage rises from coupling to circuits and should be Multiple point Shielding against electro-
used where possible. It does though, subject equip- magnetic effects requires multipoint grounding. Mul-
ment to high common mode voltages. It is most tipoint grounding, Fig. 16.5, requires that each LRU
easily implemented for simple electromechanical de- case be the single point reference for all internal
vices, such as motors, servos, solenoids, potentiome- circuitry. Each circuit or signal type is multipoint
ters, lights and switches. All of these are devices that grounded to local reference planes and then each of
0
can withstand several hundreds or possibly a few thou- these reference planes is termoinated to the chassis.
sands of volts between the internal circuits and the The chassis is then terminated to the nearest airframe
case or frame of the device, ground plane.
424