system. Grounding at both ends removes the volt- twisted pair wires, as shown in Fig. 17.5, allow the
ages to ground, but allows noise currents to flow in the shield to be grounded at both ends since residual noise
shield and allows circuit voltages to develop. Which voltages produced by current in the shield is rejected.
represents the greater hazard, common mode voltages
or circuit voltages, depends on the circumstances of Junctions with semiconductors: In general it is
wiring interconnecting two different preferable that individual cases.
Two ways to resolve the dilemma are shown in pieces of electronic equipment not interface directly
Fig. 17.3. One way is to limit the voltage on the un- with the junctions of semiconductors, as shown in Figs.
grounded end with a surge protective device, leaving 17.6(a).
the shield, in effect grounded at only one end for nor-
low when light- at both ends operation and grounded mal
the circuit to flows. This does subject ning current
temporary error voltages when lightning current flows,
but the risk of permanent damage from high common
mode voltages is reduced. still high
Fig. 17.4 Twisted pair transmission.
(a)N ( il ... ....1 .. ....
low -----
transmission and reception. Differential Fig. 17.5
Fig. 17.3 Elimination of common mode voltage.
(a) Surge suppression device
(b) Overall shield
better method A of minimizing error voltages is to
cover the signal shield with an overall shield grounded
at each end. This minimizes both circuit and common
mode voltages. It also separates the functions of pro- (a)
viding for lightning protection and providing for noise
free tranmmission under normal circumrtances. The ..
overall shield must, of course, be grounded at both
ends.
Twisted pairs: Signal transmission over a twisted-pair
circuit with signal grounds isolated fromn the aircraft
structure, Fig. 17.4, tends to couple lower voltages
because the resistive rise in the shield is not in the s-g.
nal path. It must not be forgotten, however, that the
use of twisted-pair transndssion lines does not elim- (b)
inate the common-mode voltage to which electronic
%" minimized is voltage That be subjected. may systems
only by grounding the shield at both ends.
4 Sig. 17.0 Cotmection to semiconductor junctions.
reception: Differential end transmoisson Differential (a) Direct connection - bad
transmission and reception devices, used along with Current (b) limiting resistor - good
438