grain boundaries. The volt-ampere characteristics of a Volt-ampere characteristic: The volt-ampere char-
finished part depends on the size of the grains and the acteristic of a typical MOV device is shown in Fig.
number in series, which for a given Sormulation of the 17.15 and an equivalent circuit in Fig. 17.16. The V-I
bulk material, implies that the voltage clamping level characteristic has three regions: very low current levels
becomes directly proportional to the thickness of the where capacitance C and leakage resistance doam- Roff
finished part. Current handling capability depends on inate, very high current regions where bulk resistance
how many grains are in parallel. or for a finished part, becomes important and the intermediate region of &R
on its area. The volt-ampere characteristic of MOVs normal operation.
thus derive from a bulk effect, which accounts for their
large power handling capability. Leakage region: At low current levels the leakage re-
sistance is high enough, on the order of ohms, 10i that
leakage current is often insignificant for circuits ener-
gized with dc. Leakage resistance is strongly depen-
dent on temperature, as shown in Fig. 17.17. For
CURRENT high voltage applications where MOV materials are en-
solar to intense and exposed porcelain shells closed in ELECTRODES
heating, leakage resistance may result in enough ad-
"ditional heat and temperature rise to lead to thermal
runaway, but such problems are not likely in aircraft
applications. RONuLARY
of leak- effects the ac, with energized circuits For *A
age resistance are overshadowed by the effects of paral- d
lel capacitance. Capacitance of MOV devices is fairly
high, on the order of 1 - -10 nF for typical devices,
nearly constant with frequency up to 100 kHz and lit-
tle affected by temperature. Capacitance is not usually
a problem for circuits operating at power frequencies
and may even be valuable in that it helps shunt high
frequency noise currents to ground. Its effects must be
Fig. 17.14 Intergranular structure of MOV [17.1]. considered on circuits operating at high frequencies or
d is the average grain size. reacting to rapidly changing pulses.
LEAKAGE UPTURN
REGION NORMAL VARISTOR OPERATION REGION
I I
5WG
1000
20
(TYPICAL. V130LA20A )
10 L
10.6 10"'7 1e 10.6 10*4 10"8 10.1 10"1 10 lot lop 10"$ le CURRENT AMPER98E -
Fig. V-1 characteristic 17.15 of MOV [17. 1]. •
444