Establish Protection Criteria δ - 5.6.4 Step
of the criteria for each the specific In this step,
should of protection systems in need and structures
include will this effects, direct For upon. decided be
can be that of physical damage of the degree definition
es- and structures, critical/essential flight by tolerated
tanks. the fuel for free criteria ignition of tablishment
found in Chapters is topics these of discussion Further
usu- will this protection, effects indirect For 7. 6 and
Lev- Transient Control of establishment include ally
Equipment and wiring interconnecting for els (TCL'σ)
and electrical for Levels Design Transient (ETDL'σ)
equipment. electronic
In current: circuit short and voltage circuit Open
of the terms in defined be will levels these cases, most
current circuit short the and (eoc) voltage circuit open
The interfaces. wiring/equipment at appearing (ι.χ)
impedances source the by related be will ic and eoc
and wiring, of interconnecting impedance) loop (ι.ε.,
for different determined levels may be different there
The relation- voltages. or operating circuit functions
transient equipment control, transient ship between
in Fig. is illustrated levels susceptibility design and
specifications in the stated is usually The 5.14. ETDL
an and constitutes equipment electrical/electronic for
equipment. for this level acceptance test
transient equipment ρ
10,613 euepUbllity -: ii-
transient equipment
level (ETDL) design
margin
control transient
(TCL) levels
-[λ v actuallvanient
Electrical/ Interconnecting
Eectronic Wring
Equipment
levels. between transient 5.14 Relationships Fig.
are typi- design levels transient Since equipment
requirements, standardized by these represented cally
Nor- evaluation. protection greatly simplifies their use
be levels will design and control the transient mally,
system in- or manufacturer airframe by the established
or of vehicle the penalties compare who will tegrator,
of equip- with those wiring protection interconnecting
Sment efficient levels, the most to establish hardening

utilized standards industry describes for 15 Chapter
discussions TCL'σ. Further and of definition ETDL'σ
in Chapters are presented effects protection of indirect
18. through 8
Protection Design 5.6.5
or changes additions, design specific this step, In
critical/essential flight the to made are modifications
them to enable components and systems structures,
δ. Step in established protection criteria the meet to
of number α large involve will this effects, direct For
basic the of solution from ranging techniques, design
to techniques manufacturing material and structural
elec- improve to devices or of treatments addition the
finishes, suppression, arc or spark trical conductivity,
divert- lightning of application gaskets, and sealants
provi- bonding electrical and structures insulating ers,
discussion Further equipment. of and relocation sions
7. and 6 found in Chapters is methods these of
appli- involves effects against indirect Protection
of low provision shielding, of electromagnetic cation
of surge incorporation surfaces, grounding impedance
cir- output of input and design and proper suppressors
of discussion Further equipment. of electronic cuits
17. 8 though Chapters found in is these methods
Adequacy Protection φ - Verify Step 5.6.6
by can be accomplished protection of Verification
or by proven designs to previously similarity analysis,
simi- but used, be can methods three the of Any test.
Tests normally analysis are and first. considered larity
un- be performed they cannot made, but to be do need
avail- made built and designed, has been hardware til
for testing. able
of di- verification used for Typical analyses Analysis:
of calculation include methods protection rect effects
based on current, due to rises temperature conductor
in- and action area cross-sectional material, conductor
mag- of or calculation current, lightning of the tegral
upon current dependent which are effects netic forces
are These analyses factors. and geometrical amplitude
can be de- laws which physical on fundamental based
terms. in mathematical scribed
present de- of analyses include comparison Other
data an empirical designs for which with earlier signs
or extrapolations extensions exists. In this case, base
bases data existing empirical the to relate are utilized
of interest. the designs to
the to determine be utilized can rarely Analysis
structures complex in currents of lightning behaviour
and current components with multiple interfaces or
been have not these interfaces especially when paths,
111