of 18 inches in accordance with traditional practice.
Dielectric structures such as the radome, of course,
were considered as being entirely within Zone 1
though their length is often longer than 18 inches,
in other cases the 18-inch criterion has been followed,
For conventional aluminum skins, the line of
marcation between Zone and 2Α (or between IA
and 2 using the earlier definitions) is of little I
tical importance, because most aluminum skins
withstand even the first return stroke (SAE current
component Α) with little damage.
Composite structures: If the skin or structure aft
α leading edge attachment point is made of advanced
composites, or other poorly conducting materials,
rearward extent of Zone IA becomes of critical
portance. Many carbon fiber composites can tolerate
the effects produced by the Zone currents without 2Α
requiring additional protection, but the return (coin-
ponent Α) designated for Zone 1 in the SAE criteria,
can deliver eight times more energy than the re--strike
current (component Δ) included in the Zone 2Α
quirement, and the resulting damage can be extensive
unless protective coatings or other methods 'have been
applied.
Most protective measures add weight and increase
cost. Thus, α decision regarding whether to apply pro-
α ZONE =
3 ρ ZONE
Fig. 5.7 Strike zones as
in FAA 20-53.

tection or not, (or even whether or not α composite
should be utilized in the first place), may depend di-
even rectly on the designation of the lightning strike zones,
but and especially on α realistic determination of the rear-
ward extent of Zone IA.
de- The significance of the Α and Β designation can
Zone be seen in the currents specified forZones 1Α and lB.
prac- Due to the short hang-on time for an initial strike to
can. α Zone surface, only 1Α current components Α and Β,
are applied, but all of the current components will be
experienced by trailing edge surfaces in Zone lB.
of Arrival time of return stroke: Study of α number of
instances of structural damage produced by in-flight
the lightning strikes indicates that in some cases the re-
im- turn stroke may not arrive until the lightning channel
has swept considerably farther than 18 inches aft of
the nose or other initial attachment point. This is
because α finite period must elapse between the time
the lightning leader initially attaches to α leading edge
extremity and when the leader has reached its desti-
re- nation and the return stroke is initiated.
During this period the aircraft will have moved α
certain distance and the leader channel will have been
drawn aft alongside the structure, reattaching period-
ically to spots in its path. This situation is illustrated
in Fig. 5.9
determined from definitions given
(Now out of date.)
10Α~