few megahertz. If at all possible, the pass bands of
electronic equipment should not include these frequen-
cies, as does the hypothetical pass band shown on Fig.
17.7(δ). Higher or lower pass bands would inherently
be better than the one shown. As an extreme example,
shown in Fig. 17.7(ε), fiber optic signal transmission
operating in the infrared region avoids the frequency
spectrum associated with lightning-generated interfer-
ence almost completely.
17.4 Protective Devices
Circuit protective devices can sometimes be used
to limit the amount of electrical energy that α wire
can couple into α piece of electronic equipment. While
one can seldom eliminate interference through the use
of the circuit protective devices, circuit protective de-
vices judiciously used can virtually eliminate physical
damage to electronic devices. Judicious use usually
means that protective devices must be incorporated
into α piece of equipment at the time it is built, not
added after trouble has been experienced.
Basic types of protector: There are two basic types
of overvoltage or transient protection device; switching
devices and non-linear devices, having V-I character-
istics as indicated on Fig. 17.8.
......
woihtage δ -
•
......... _β Σ........
. ,
drop are
Y •ceases
Σ (α)normal
- I
Fig. 17.8 characteristics of protective devices. V-I
(α) Switching device
()
Switching devices: Switching devices, Fig. 17.8(α),
conduct essentially no current until the voltage across
them reaches α critical value, at whici, time the volt-
age collapses to nearly zero and current is controlled
by the externel circuit. Examples are spark gaps and
controlled rectifiers.
The instantaneous power dissipated in α transient
protective device is the product of the surge current
flowing through the device and the voltage across the
device. Thus, even though the surge current through
α conducting spark gap may be high, the power dissi-
pated in the gap will be small,

Spark gaps and other switching devices do not
control surges by absorbing the energy of the surge.
Primarily they operate by reflecting surge energy back
towards its source, where it may be dissipated in the
resistance of the conductors.
Non-linear devices: Non-linear devices have V-I
characteristics as shown in Fig. 17.8(β). They conduct
very little current at low voltage levels, but once con-
duction begins, the voltage across the device remains
fairly constant. Examples include Zener type surge
suppression diodes and metal oxide varistors, MOV'σ.
Because the voltage does not collapse to zero, energy
is released in the device and the rating of the device
will be governed by the amount of energy, the ther-
mal nmass and the allowable temperature rise of the
device. Non-linear devices control surges partly by
turning electrical energy into heat and partly by re-
flecting it back towards its source.
For α given surge-power handling capability, α
spark gap will thus be smaller physically than α surge
suppr'ssion diode or varistor device.
Recovery characteristics: Another fundamental 'dif-
ference between switching devices (spark gaps) and
non-switching devices (surge suppression diodes or
varistors) relates to their recovery characteristics af-
ter the surge has passed. If α line is protected by α
spark gap and if that line is connected tia source of
energy (α power bus. for example), that energy source
must be disconnected from the line before the spark
gap can switch back from its low-impedance conduct-
state. nonconducting its high-impedance to ing state
Generally this requires opening α circuit breaker on the
line. Α surge suppression diode or varistor effectively
to conduct as soon as the voltage returns to itb
value. Operation of remote circuit breakers is
not required.
Circuit interrupters: There are also devices which,
on sensing an overvoltage, interrupt the power flow to
the load. If this interruption is accomplished by elec- tromechanical means, they should not be considered
transient protection devices because they are inher-
ently slow to respond. None of them will be discussed
in this section.
Reflection energy: of All types of overvoltage protec-
tion devices inherently operate by reflecting α portion
of the surge energy to its source and by diverting the
rest into another path, all with the intention of dis-
sipating the surge energy into the resistance of the
ground and interconnecting leads. The alternative to
reflecting the energy is to absorb the surge energy in
an unprotected load. Reflection and diversion of the
surge energy are not without their hazards:
440