Chapter 10
THE EXTERNAL ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELD ENVIRONMENT
Introduction 10.1
In order to estimate the lightning induced tran- magnetic effects that couple to the inside of the air-
sients in an aircraft, one must first determine the ex- craft, there is little need to study the reverse coupling;
ternal electromagnetic fields. While they are not of the voltages and currents induced on wiring will not
prime concern, since the internal electromagnetic envi- affect the lightning. It is this separation of interaction
ronment is what determines the voltages and currents effects that allows the internal response of the aircraft
induced on wiring, the internal environment is deter- to be calculated by first determining the external elec-
mined by the external environment and the degree to tromagnetic fields without consideration of how they
which it couples to the inside of the aircraft. Coupling couple to the interior and then to apply the coupling
mechanisms are discussed in Chapters 11 and 12. factors to those fields to determine the internal en-
The purpose of this chapter is to discuss the fac- vironment. Some analysis procedures do calculate the
tors that affect the external environment and to outline external environment and the coupling simultaneously,
methods of determining it. Elementary factors govern- but they can also be treated separately.
ing it will be discussed first, then various methods of For many purposes. approximate methods of anal-
calculation will be presented, ranging from simple ap- ysis provide coupling estimates that are satisfactory
proximations to the more complicated ones based on for lightning protection purposes. The type of analyti-
non-linear interactions of the aircraft and the light- cal method which one uses depends upon financial con-
ning channel. siderations, vehicle complexity, design requirements,
Detailed calculations are complex because tJe air- available computational tools, and known susceptibil-
craft is α complex electromagnetic object. The geom- ity and criticality of electrical and electronic systems
etry is complex, requiring three dimensional solutions. in the aircraft.
The materials are varied, consisting of highly conduct-
10.2 Elementary Effects Governing Magnetic ing metals such as aluminum and copper, more resis-
Fields tive metals such as titanium, carbon fiber composites
that are three orders of magnitude less conductive than
metals, and insulators such as glass, Kevlar, fiberglass In Chapter 9 it was shown that if α long conductor
and plastic. is carrying α current, and the return I, path is far
Finally, the lightning environment itself is com- removed, the field intensity at α distance, ρ, from the
plex. One of the more significant features is that it is conductor, as shown in Fig. 10.1(α), is:
both α high frequency and low frequency event. Time I
scales on the order of tens of nanoseconds must be (10.1) =fi-. H
2Τ'ρ lightning environment the parts of some and resolved
may last on the order of one second. Also, different If instead of α solid wire, the current is carried on α
aspects of the lightning environment dominate at dif- hollow tube of radius ρ , as shown in Fig. 10.1(β), the
0
ferent times within the event. For example, during the field intensity, H, at radius ρ is again:
attachment phase, the electric field and its rate of rise
are of primary interest and at later times the current H (10.2) =
are impor- both For some times primary interest. is of
tant. The interaction of the aircraft with the lightning and at the surface of the tube, where ρ ρ., the field =
channel is also α nonlinear phenomenon, some features intensity is:
of which are not yet well understood.
Fortunately, however, α mathematically rigorous 2* (10.3) H =
27rr. sim- One important required. always is not treatment
plification in the analysis procedure is that it can fre- It follows that the field intensity at the surface of the
quently be taken in stages since the inside and outside tube is also equal to the total current divided by the
of the aircraft are only loosely coupled. What this circumference, Π,
(10.4) electro- may produce = the lightning IP. while H is that means
275