magnetic internal the When oscillations: Complex defined by impedance, source The impedance: Source
and case, usual the is as waveshape, of complex is field ohms, 3681 is current, and voltage peak the of the ratio
in shown function exponential inverse idealized the not conduc- equivalent an for than higher much number a
volt- circuit open resulting the figures, preceding the field, magnetic a or rises voltage IR to exposed tor
examples A few nature. complex very be of a may age wave- particular one to only pertains it again though
voltage the maximum 8. While Chapter in shown were partially impedance value of source high This shape.
nature complex the given predict, to difficult be may shielding effective to provide it is easier why explains
the of the amplitude oscillations, the superimposed or of fields against magnetic than fields electric against
the ele- using approximated at least be can envelope voltages, generated resistively
above. described techniques mentary
multiple conductors are If there conductors: Multiple
oscil- superimposed of the Frequency: The frequency inter- be will currents the displacement bundle, in a
con- to the proportional be inversely tends to lations conse- and conductors the outer by primarily cepted
grcunded such as shields, length. Conductors, ductor make does in a bundle of a conductor location quently
For dipoles. as quarter-wave tend to ring at one end cur- capacitively coupled the as regards a difference
at 7.5 to ring long tends 10 m a conductor example, or magneti- resistively with situation the unlike rents,
to ap- relationship is difficult this simple MHz. Even induced currents. ,;ally
influence of the free seldom is conductor one since ply,
and inductance adjacent conductors. Capacitance Effect of are in- currents displacement Since shield: of a
fre- oscillatory the make the conductors ends of the at will a shield outermost conductor, by the tercepted
ex- in oscillations being result and may lower quencies if it is even currents, coupled reduce capacitively
not be they would when circuit a complete in cited the shield assumes This only one end. at grounded
capaci- and inductance the distributed if only excited is negligi- impedance that its short sufficiently to be
involved. were conductors of the tance of discussions in made generally assumption an ble;
bundles, into usually grouped is wiring Aircraft unstated. often though practices, shielding
long and both ,ihort containing usually the bundles
Effects Line Transmission a mag- 14.4 to exposed if even assembly, conductors. The
com- in a oscillate will waveshape, of simple field netic
fre- dominant one will be there Generally manner. plex them associated with always have Conductors
highe:, umally frequencies, other several with quency inductance, the val- capacitance and distributed some
characteristic its own have will superimposed. Each the conduc- size of by the determined are which ues of
is generalization only reliable the About decrement. adjacent from conductors of the distance and the tors
be will aircraft large with associated bundles the that are these When conductors. and other planes ground
aircraft small with bundles associated the than longer magnetic and electric of changing effect the considered,
On lower frequencies. at oscillate generally and will currents. and voltages oscillatory to produce fields is
have voltages of induced measurements aircraft, fighter
range the be in to frequencies characteristic the shown wire the example, an shows 14.16 Fig. Example:
MHz. to 10 1 of line a transmission as treated being 14.9 of Fig.
also of conductors measured on bundles Currents the in- with 14.3, Eq. impedance, surge 185 ohms
as as long voltages, the like be oscillatory, to tend at the connected being 14.16(c) Fig. voltage, duced
a employing group of a wiring part are conductors the field a magnetic to pertain The calculations center.
conductors on Currents concept. ground single-point 14.9. Fig. used on was than of rise rate a faster with
tend not at each end grounded contained in a shield to tray- gives rise of the wire nature distributed The
of shape the underlying follow to but oscillatory, to be than the longer persist that or oscillations waves eling
field. magnetic internal the change of rate rapid the more The induced voltage.
the oscillations. be will pronounced more the of field,
them eliminate and may oscillations the reduce Losses
Zones Field Magnetic 14.5 circuits. simple for as calculated at least entirely,
circuit short the on noted not are oscillations The
it chapters preceeding the of discussions the From induced the of integral the to it responds since current
electromag- the of mapping task the that seen be can imped- source 14.16, Fig. of circuit the For voltage.
flow- making detailed and vehicle a inside fields netic the for than higher times several ohms, was 62 ance
current or voltage the determine calculations to down in im- difference The 14.9. Fig. in illustrated situation
A task. be a formidable cables could and all circuits on in waveshape difference the to due mostly is pedance
rec- in lies problem flowdown the to solution possible field. magnetic the of
383