Nj
13.7. Values of RF and RR on Fig. throngh 'ýesistors, tesistor iW that it re•duces drawback tOa series One
available the maximum current α given size surge 160 to 150 ohmsI are usua14 sufficient. The figure also trom
generator. Another is that considermble, voltage devel- shows the current waveshapes ,obtained in the actual
1 ops between the, aircraft and the return circuit. For test for which Fig. 13.4 showed calculatior.σ.
Scalg safety, reasons of is, preferable that the return cir- 3τ 13.3.3
cuit be grounded. Thus the aircraft potential rises and
insulation under the wheels becomei necessary. In- The -asic prerise of pulse testing at other than
sulation capable of withstanding several hunidred kV full amplitude is that the aircraft system is linear and
cmn he provided, without undue diffloulty, sufficient for that results of measurements at low current levels can
tests at current levels up to several thousand amperes. be scaled linearly to predict the response at full threat
current level. As discussed in §13.2.2. aircraft are lin-
oscillations retirn on the wires: Since the ear systems, at least as rega.'ds resistively and magnet- External
aircraft canuot be completely enclosed by α cylindrical ically generated voltages. Some questions have arisen
return conductor, magnetic and electric fields will leakl in the past as to what is the mcst important mode of
throtigh the cage of return wires and couple to other interaction arid whether scaling should be on the, basis
conductors outside, such as steel in the hangar floi'ρ relative of amplitudes or relative rates of rise.
and walls. Energy coupled to these systems will cause Simplistically, one might argue that the dominant
α secondary set of traveling waves to propagate on the mode of coupling is resistive and that only relative am-
return wires, as well as the primary, set propagating plitsmdes of current are important. Equally simplisti-
between the aircraft and the return wires. Reftections cally one might' argue that aperture coupling effects
and that the induced volt- and refractions in the external systmns will Ghow up in are of primary importance
the measurements made in the primary circuit, ages depend on rate of rise of current. On this premise,
These oscillations can be controlled by conn-ecting one would scale measurerneut results ficcording to the
both ends of the return conductors to building ground rate of rise of ,he surge cureent,
Test 208 Test 209
10OA/div lus/div 100Α/div Ss/div
Λ 18 uml -
C 1.5 UF -
45 R al -
kV E'- 25
fl Rf- 120
130 α R_
13.7 on the return lines. Termination resistors Fig.
359