transmit -pitot- just to than needed siderably larger
It might flight lnotruments. air back to the static
of non- tubes the to fabricate therefore, better, be
metal, con- provide α separate plastic and conducting
probe from the current carry lightning to ductor
suf- wire will No. 6 copper An AWG. airframe. the
than '1ettier be would conductor Α stranded , , ce.,
because amount small flex α it can because one solid
doeections presenting the without rise of temperature
α problem.
AM •\•'/, POIURIN01
TUBI Γ4ROUNDING
. ij
held lightning rigidly '4φ 6.8 Examples Fig.
conductors., current
'tube the air If elongation: expected of_ Example
had and copper of, made were '4.8 of Fig. radome the
an outside diameter of 0.476 cm (3/16 in) and α wall
cross- Α have in), it would (0.049 cm of0.124 thickness
). 2 2 action An in (0.021 cm 0.138 of area sectional
temperature the raise would Α 106 2 ξ of tegral .Σ
by 67°C. area cross-sectional this conductor of α
expected be to expansion thermal of The amount
on dependent is part α of dimension any along
of linear coefficient thermal the and rise temperature
following the to metal," according the of expansion
lation:
(.1 LaAT AL =
Λ is and expansion of coefficient is the α where
of α ho- dimensions course all Of of concern. length
and proportionately will elongate material mogeneous
signifi- The most fittings and clamps. may affect this
the length along be would though, cant expansion,
conductor. the
linear expansion of coefficient Based on the
 4 10- and (1/*C), ξ 0:164 6.1, in Table given copper
Λ, of 2 α length, has tube the that assumption the
would cause rise temperature α 67C "cold," when
of elongation
67 ξ ξ 10-4 0.164 ξ 2 = 4Λ
(6.12) 2.2 mm. μ = 2.198 ξ = 10-3

the lim- within well expansion may be of This amount
temperature environmental by normal its established
the where might exist situations other bqt cycling,
current could by lightning expansion caused thermal
light- carry that might conductor Any α' !oncern. to be
ther- see whether to be examined carrent should ning
α problem. rightbe elongationi α mal
Exploding tem- an excessive which case in Α Wires:
cur- lightning one in which occur is rise miay, perature
SWOMrent an such as conductor, by only α single is carried
Σ" In cable. control steel or α strap bond munesi6ed
cur- lightning of the action integral the χ"ses, these
be both may conductors of the the resistance and ,rent
in deposited to be energy enough to allow hii1ι'Lenough
melting to the its Ltemperature 'to6 rase the conductor
0 ovaporization points, Since the,'resistance of most
an even temperature, increases with conductors .niqpsý
the con- in deposited will be of energy ýmourit higher
will in turn, this, rises, and, temperature as its ductor
action If the further. even temperature the increase
" melt and will conductor 'the it'err~αýΛ .isghlonough,
can wire of α explosion An plocde, even perhapf
energy asso- chemical the since damage cause severe
to the is added wire of the combustion with 6attd
of the lightning by passage energy produced electrical
current.
prob- was that to α radome damage of An example in
in Fig. shown was wire exploding ofran result the ably
4.7.'
composite unprotected the was example Another
light navigation the where 4.8, Fig. of design tip wing in-
carry light- to available conductor only the was harness of
airframe. tbe to assembly lamp the from current ning
have could This tip. wing the It exploded, destroying
path parallel alternate an by providing prevented been the
current. lightning the for
re-
Effects Force Magnetic 6.2.3
in which situations are there earlier, mentioned As
cur- carry lightning may in parallel conductors several the
acted will be conductor each in such cases, and, rents
in is shown case such One force. ýnagnetic by α upon
6.9. Fig.
per unit length the force Law, on Ampere'σ Based of
is wire 2 on
1112 2,u for
(6.13) = dP-,2 on
μ Δ δ1
2
where an
Α/μ 10- ξ 4vr
- N conductors on force , Π = 1 2
124