δ intern bus LRU
(α)
00'/...F77777
Zin
01//// /F.11.1 Z/ ζ /./ZZ
grounding, point 16.5 Multiple Fig.
Good (α)
(β) Bad
to on objected is sometimes Multipoint grounding
it may loops" or that "ground that it creates the basis
high voltages. to output circuits and subject input
to deal it is easier but generally valid points, These are
with multipoint residual problems associated with the
point single with with those associated than grounding
grounding.
Wiring Interconnecting of Shielding 16.5.2
to system immune make an electronic order. to In
always necessary is almost it of lightning, the effects
interconnect- on use of shielding make judicious to
these of grou'nding provide proper and to ing wiring
nf cable the performance governing Factors shields,
15, but will in Chapter in'detail were discussed shields
basic of the some 16.6 shows here. Fig. reviewed be
ti /! ρ co_ considerations.
&~LOW" WWI0
1 α)
ρ
7-magnetic 1
-:, (β) - ,----φ---...--'
'F Imon
"at ORO
. ,"--
(χ) -
_" .
(δ) -"
of shield. 16.6 Types Fig.
vs shielded Unshielded (α)
Multiple-grounded (β)
spiral wrapped braid vs Solid vs (χ)
Conduits (δ)

an unshielded 16.6(α) In Fig. conductors: Unshielded
to the full magnetic field in- conductor, being exposed
developed voltages have high will the structure, side
terminations. across the high impedance
shown of shield, types the different Of of shield: Types
Fig. 16.6(χ), the solid shield inherently provides bet-
spiral and α shield, α braided does than ter shielding
in shield to α braided inferior shield can be far wrapped
shields braided environments In severe performance.
may gi,,ε shield- courses of braid two overlapping using
wallcd of α solid that performance approaching ing shield.
not Fig. 16.6(δ), should shown in Conduits: Conduits,
effects against indirect upon for protection be relied
electromagnetic not provide or may may since they
shieldiig.
for me- be used more tend to iluits in aircraft Coi.
of protection for electrical than chanical protection
con- is electrically Only if the conduit conductors.
to carry it be able will aircraft structure to the nected
conductors the for shielding provide and thus current
frequently protection for mechanical within. Conduits
gas- use rubber that in clamps mounted are physically
Such vibration and wear. mechanical kets to prevent
it and prevent the conduit insulate course, clamps, of
capability. shielding any magnetic from having
will not provide conduits nonmetallic Clearly,
bhielding. electromagnetic
of Shields Grounding 16.5.3
at Shield grounded one end: The presence of α shield
af- not significantly end will only one at grounded
by changing induced voltage of the the magnitude fect
against .nay protect α shield although fields,
the keep may shield α While fields. electric changing
com- allow the low, it will grounded end at the voltage
high to be conductors signal the on voltage mode
unshielded end. the
at grounded Shielding against ends: both Shield
at grounded be to shield the requires fi4lds magnetic
it that order in 16.6(β), Fig. in shown as ends, both
circulating the is It circulating current. α carry may
produce that fields magnetic the cancels that current
rommon mode voltages.
always effects almost lightning indirect of Control
provided with wiring be that interconnecting requires
at shield be grounded the and that overall shield an
(and can) that must conflicts doe" raise end. This each
resolved. be
425