will be new advisory circular which will define the the most recent aircraft lightning standards, such as α
lightning environment and methodology to be used to and the SAE "orange book". 795 MIL-STD-1
verify compliance with the new regulation. SAE Com-
Multiple burst environment: mittee AE-4Λ was tasked by FAA to draft the new The moat importa
com- environment, burst" "multiple the is these of advisory circular.
prised of α large number of comparatively low ampli-
has tude current pulses characterized by high rates-of-rise book": The result of this activity SAE "Orange
been published in the SAE Committee AE-4Λ report and short duration, and occurring randomly over the
Examples of typical intra-cloud of the flash. lifetime Recommended Protection of Draft Advisory Circular:
lightning flash currents are presented in Chapter 3. Aircraft Electrical/Electronic Systems Against the In-
Effects [5.4]. This document, which direct of Lightning
The Standardized Environment 5.5.6 is more commonly known as the "orange book", is
now in wide use as α de facto standard for certification
of flight critical or essential systems aboard transport The standardized lightning environment defined
category aircraft. in [5.2] and [5.41 is in present use for aircraft design
is α com- purposes. This environment and certification "orange book" both the SAE and 795 MIL-STD-1
embody the original SAE lightning current and volt- bination of individual waveforms which have been syn-
characteristics of natural from the important from the cloud- thesized which were derived age components
environment originally compiled by lightning flashes described in Chapters 2 and 3 for cer- to-earth lightning
Α, of components tification purposes. The waveforms envi- of this reviews Pierce. Subsequent Cianos and
and Δ are derived from cloud-to-ground light- ronment have been conducted by the SAE committee Β, C,
and UK/European standards organizations, and ad- ning discharges. Component H represents additional
ditional references compiling data obtained after the characteristics of intracloud and cloud-to-cloud dis-
Pierce publication have also become avail- charges. Cianos and
able. One such reference is that compi!.δ by Anderson There are five current component waveforms (Α,
and Erickson [5.15]. Careful review of this data shows and H) that are applied as appropriate to the Β, C, Δ
that the original Cianos and Pierce database is still lightning strike zone(σ) in which system is located. To-
representative of the cloud-to-earth lightning environ- gether these components constitute the external light-
ment. Thus, no changes in this part of the lightning ning current environment. They are defined as follows:
standards have been appropriate.
The advent of full authority control systems em- Component Initial High Peak Current: Com- Α -
ploying sensitive microelectronics began to focus at- ponent Α has α peak amplitude of 200 kA, an action
 2 tention on other aspects of the lightning environ- integral of 2 ξ 102 Α .σ and α double exponential wave-
ment including the characteristics of intra-cloud and form. This waveform, represents α first return stroke
cloud-to-cloud lightning strikes encountered by air- of 200 000 amperes at α rate-of-rise of 1 ξ 10" Α/σ at
craft. Whereas the amplitude and action integrals τ = 0.5,us. It has α peak rate of rise of 1.4 ξ Α/σ 101
of the currents in these strikes was believed to be at τ 0+. This waveform is defined mathematically =
less than those associated with cloud-to-earth flashes, as
other aspects, such as peak rates of change of current
 τ (5.2) - eC ] = was the concern, as were of of pulses, and multiplicity ι(τ) Io [ε-`
need for better understanding of the locations of strike where
zones and the interaction of lightning flash channels 218810 Α = ro
with aircraft.
σ-1 Σ= 11354
647265 σ- =3 several re- For these reasons, Research programs:
search programs were implemented, beginning in 1980, time σ = τ
to study the intra-cloud and cloud-to-cloud lightning
5.3. in Fig, is shown waveform The spon- were which these programs, In environment.
to multi- are given 5.3 in Eq. The constants the FAA, and Air Force, the US sored by NASA,
and dimensional consistency precision only for digit with instrumented were aircraft government, French
en- lightning the actual that be inferred not it should pa- electrical recording and sensing of capable devices
or that tests 'that precision, known to is vironment of The results strikes. lightning in-flight of rameters
environment must duplicate that to duplicate have made Chapter 3, in are reviewed these programs, which
has any engineer- such precision or that such precision aspects of the intra- several published and been widely
cloud lightning environment have been incorporated in ing value.
99