of determining to some numerical or graphical method
may be determined the field. Numerically, the field *
of Laplace'σ equation. by α numerical solution
Π surrounded 10.10 shows α conductor at potential
case, at potential α return conductor, α circle in this
To this geometry is fitted α rectangular zero.
grid. shown here as α very coarse
Initially, all grid points that lie on the conductor
all the grid points would be assigned α potential Π, and
α poten- would be assigned return path lie on the that
in two dimensions can tial zero. Laplace'σ equation
to be approximately: shown
4 (10.19) 1"1 + 0] + 82 + 20;Z1[1+ 02 03 O2• 52• 04-
υ ýj_
From this it follows that Laplace'σ equation is
if the numeric values at four points surrounding isfied
point have values that satisfy the equation α central
*-2+•β3+•4-4•β00 (10.20)- •bi
conductor of the field around the determination -Α
field values at all of the points then involves assigning
between the conductor and its return path, and
points until Eq.10.20 is justing the value of these
The literature isfied everywhere within the grid.
numerical techniques indicates α number of the 10.4]
at the points may be adjusted by which the potentials
* tedious, it While the process is to their final values.
as by hand, to do impractical is not completely
cussed briefly in §10.5.2. Usually the process is
that solve the field equations. by computer routines
field values of the the numerical to tabulating addition
points, frequently such computer routines at the grid
and equipotential lines. allow one to plot the flow
illustrates Fig. 10.10 space and grid size: Problem
of of numerical evaluation aspects important two
is that the solution fields. The first tromagnetic
space. For an in α defined problem only take place
problem an aircraft in flight, the lated object such as
directions far in all extend very ideally should space
the most at even field intensity the in theory, since,
surface of the remote point affects the field at the
the preci- craft. The second is that the grid size affects
with which the field may be calculated. sion and detail
smaller than Ideally the grid size should be much
field is of the aircraft around which the dimensions
be determined,
and α large problem space would Α small grid size
amount of computer memory require an excessive
time, partic- amount of computer running an excessive
dimensions. if calculations are desired in three ularly
for time domain solutions The problem is compounded
must be calculated anew for each because the field
size and computer resources step. Problem spare, grid

to less than the desired pre- will usually limit solutions
cision.
in the field in the Frequently one is only interested Fig.
of the aircraft. If so, the problem by immediate vicinity
of computer memory needed, space, and the amount
field magni- can be made relatively small by setting grid,
the outer boundary of the problem to an ap- tudes at
rather than zero, proximation of their correct values,
the calculations on the field around and concentrating
similar On the aircraft study. under the conductor
be used to concentrate the calculation be techniques can
of most interest. those portions on
be 'π1
problem
apace
-
sat-
-- -
η η -- - -3 - -.
0-"
-
- -
π-tentil Z Π 7
ad-
sat-
[10.3, potental 0 =
potential
I -
dis-
evaluation Fig. 10.10 Α rectangular grid for done
of Laplace'σ equation. In
Apertures: of Laplace'σ equation Any solution
coupling allow the pattern of low frequency will also
tech- Computer to be calculated. through an aperture
such solutions, used for commonly niques are now elec-
tank and resistive paper but in the past electrolytic can
of the used. Hand mapping were widely iso- techniques
is outlined also done and that technique fields was
either with routines deal computer in §10.5.2. Most
rotational with or problems problems two-dimensional
the aperture In α two-dimensional case, air- symmetry.
being studied. would run the length of the conductor
im- is not necessarily α disadvantage, since some This
and apertures are basically two- the portant geometries
aperture is that which may to dimensional. An important
the flaps have exist behind the rear spar of α wing when
extended. Since it is α convenient region to reach, been
region. Electrically it is and wiring is often placed in this
aperture is near α region where α poor place, since the
to the wing are high. An- the magnetic fields external
may be approx- other important set of apertures that
the as α continuous opening is that formed by time imated
aircraft. in the fuselage of α transport windows
281