flashes. lightning trigger often lightning avoid ing to
by α struck more often are aircraft those Possibly
§3.4.3. in discussed as leader, propagating urally
since be academic may matter the some extent To
taken the measures lightning and are struck by aircraft
be the same whether would against lightning to protect
it were triggered by the aircraft or not.
The subject of aircraft triggered lightning first
gan to be seriously studied in the 1960'σ [3.22 - 3.26].
was during this period that it was shown that lightning
could be deliberately triggered by rockets with trailing
wires [3.27]. Toward the end of the 1960'σ Apollo
was struck by what was deemed to be α triggered light-
ning flash and studies [3.28, 3.29] were undertaken
understand the conditions that could result in light-
ning being triggered by an aerospace vehicle.
necessary that [3.30] suggested it was In 1972,
by of lightning conditions for triggering sufficient
vehicle, including aircraft, were the existence of an
bient electric field of at least 10 kV/μ, and that
vehicle span α potential difference of about one million
volts. Also in 1972, an interesting study was published
which concluded that aircraft could trigger lightning
and that static charge on the aircraft was an impor-
tant factor [3.31].
Α good review of this subject and bibliography
was published in 1982 [3.32]. Even up to this date,
however, there was considerable uncertainty and
bate regarding the possibility of aircraft triggered
lightning. This was basically because there were
definitive measurements of aircraft triggered lightning
and no physical models to explain it.
F-106Β aircraft: In 1981 an F-106Β Research
Langley Research by the NASA craft, operated
be flown as α research vehicle to ter was outfitted
clouds to collect data on the characteristics of lightning
intercepted by aircraft. Starting in 1982 the UHF-
band radar at the Wallops Flight Facility of the NASA
guide was used to Flight Center, Space Goddard
of thunderstorms upper regions the F-106Β through
being struck, the probability of the aircraft to increase
[3.33]. by lightning
nearly that showed echos the radar of Analysis
started F-106Β the to strike α lightning from ery echo
propa- the aircraft and the echo from on top of directly
suggested certainly aircraft. This the from gated away
flashes were triggered by the that the lightning
If craft and were not naturally occurring flashes.
by flashs intercepted occurring been naturally had
seen the echos have an observer would then aircraft,
start some distance from the aircraft and propagate
echo the aircraft, finally blending with the ward
the aircraft at the time the strike was recorded by

pat- this showed flashes the lightning of None aircraft.
occurring naturally seen from echos were tern. Many nat-
the struck ever of them none but flashes, intracloud
F-106Β.
analyses using the radar echos, In addition to
- 3.36] have models [3.33 dimensional numerical three
predicted currents to arise from triggering that are
be- very similar to those observed on the vehicle. All of
It this evidence rather conclusively proves that the F-
106Β research aircraft has triggered lightning flashes.
There also has been other significant research into
12 the mechanisms of triggered lightning. Work has been
done on energy considerations [3.37 - 3.38], the role of
to positive corona streamers and precipitation particles
[3.38 - 3.39], electrode velocity (3.42], and other topics
[3.43 - 3.45]. Experimental studies have included α
and [3.46] vehicle Shuttle Orbiter Space model scale and
electrically floating cylinder [3.47]. any an
am- Mechanism of triggering: Triggered lightning occurs
the because the local electric field induces charge on the
extremities of the aircraft, this charge then producing
an electric field sufficient to cause air breakdown at
places on the aircraft, corona as discussed in Chapter
1 or St. Elmo'σ Fire, as discussed in Chapter 2. If
the ambient electric field is sufficiently high, streamers
then develop and propagate away from the aircraft.
de- The basic mechanism of propagation is similar to
that described in Chapter 1 with one major difference.
no During breakdown of α gap subjected to an externally
applied impulse, the energy required to establish the
field into which the streamer propagates is produced
by the externally applied impulse. The streamer may
charge along to propagate by conducting air- then continue
field at its tip sufficient channel and establishing α Cen- its
requisite field at the tip propagation, the into to maintain
of the leader being on the order of 500 kV/μ at sea
level There does not have to be α pre-existing field
since the charge to maintain the channel can come
to the applies the impulse that from the generator the
switching impulse with studies Laboratory electrode.
have produced §1.5.1, of Α 5 ξ volts peak 106 voltage,
 200 ft). (100 - 30 -- 60 meters propagating discharges
mecha- similar α by propagate leaders Lightning ev-
cloud. the in stored charge on the drawing nism,
difference is triggered lightning the With aircraft
must come propagation to maintain the energy that
air- from α pre-established field. Electrical charge stored
they on the aircraft may contribute to the initial break-
the dis- to maintain be enough never but can down, the
this is that from that follows Α consequence charge.
to- streamers must propagate away from the aircraft in
streamer being positive and one from both directions, one
the negative.
56