may which parts other airframe, main the Besides
or di- bonding include forces magnetic by damaged be
which object other any or probes, pitot straps, verter
force Magnetic currents. stroke conduct lightning may
to enough significant itself, by usually not, is damage
be de- even not may and of flight, abortion require
However, ground. the is on aircraft the until tected
involved, is metals of bending severe or overstress since
of- not are phenomenon this by damaged parts aircraft
repairable. ten
Interfaces Structural at Pitting 4.2.3
between exists contact electrical poor Wherever
surface hinge control as α such surfaces, mating two
flow, may currents lightning which across bearing or
In occur. may surfaces these of pitting and melting
inboard an of jackscrew the for example, incident, one
by so damaged was jet transport of α flap edge trailing
be extended could not flap that the flash lightning α
the on is located jackscrew this Since 15 degrees. past
reached have must flash the flap. the of side inboard
;weeping an earlier fuselage from the along after it
Fig. 4.5. on shown as nose, point near the attachment
the fuselage. along sweep aft to continuing of Instead
long jackscrew to the hung on apparently the flash
cause not event did it. The on α spot to melt enough
in and the damage, landing the aircraft, in difficulties
was on the aircraft until after discovered was not fact.
that extensive enough was damage The the gromd.
replaced. be to had jackscrew the
an initial was not instance jackscrew in this The
point an attachment became and it point attachment
in- This flash. α swept path of in the by being only
channels lightning the fact that the illustrates cident
sur- on the locations improbable reach seemingly may
must designers that protection and aircraft, of an face
points attachment lightning the obvious beyond look
hazards. potential to find
damage is the of pitting illustration Α second
the operating jack hydraulic of the the seals to caused
aircraft. transport jet surfaces of another tail control
of ad- jumper by α shunted was the jack case In this
currents stroke lightning to carry section cross equate
cur- of the most caused which length. excessive but of
path directly inductance the lower through to flow rent
seals, resulting the and across body the jack through
fluid. hydraulic of in leakage
Heating Resistive 4.2.4
of heating resistive is the effect direct Avother
the When currents. lightning to exposed con0ductors
its cross high or is too conductor of α resistivity

conduc- current adequate low for too area sectional
deposit apprecia- may it in tance, lightning currents
an excessive rause and conductor the in ble energy
met- most of resistivity the rise. Since temperature
in current given α rise, temperature with increases als
it than more energy deposit will conductor heated α
this χ onductor; resistant less unheated, an in would
temperature conductor the increases turn in process
toler- can elements structural metal Most further. still
copper and overheating, without current lightning ate
can area cross-sectional 2 cm 0.5 than of greater wires
overheating. currents without lightning severe conduct
con- in rises temperature determining for Methodology
is size or cross-sectional material specific of ductors
 2 cross- cm 0.5 of wire Α 6. Chapter in presented
Wire Guide an American to corresponds area sectional
AC for used be might as wire, copper 8 No. (AWG)
conductors. feed power or DC
(FINAI. ATTACHMENT
Π'Τ
- / / / / / / / /
1-7 / / /7/ / / / / /7 ,// ///11 /////// .......
to inboard attachment stroke 4.5 Swept Fig.
flap jackscrew.
is propor- deposition energy Resistive explosion: Wire
current lightning of the action integral the tional to
value action integral an is there conductor for any and
as shown vaporize, and will melt metal the at which
22 to AWG such as wires, Small diameter 4.6. in Fig.
avionic interconnect used to commonly of the sizes 16,
will loads, to small AC power or distribute equipment,
ampli- to full subjected when melt or vaporize often
currents. lightning tude
by explosive damage produced the Examples of
4.7 and Figs. in are shown of conductors vaporization
severe when usually most is The damage 4.6]. 4.8 14.5,
such enclosure, an is within condu'tor exploding the
then 4.8, because of Fig. tips wing composite as the
has pressure contained until the is energy explosion the
the container. to rupture sufficient α level up to built
en- the chemical because results damage the Partly,
72