.duplicates
voltage most nearly of common mode Application
where all wires entering the the condition
point, EUT originate at a common
testing: An evaluation hipot and low frequency DC
and under test of device the type made of be should
conducting cases, In many modes. failure possible the
waveshapes surge various the all tests with of a series
lightning environment standardized in the specified
expense. Con- work and represent unnecessary may
tests potential high low frequency DC and ventional
if only particularly actually needed, that is may be all
involved. devices are electromechanical
systems Grounded 18.6.2
Fig. 18.35(a). The is illustrated in This situation
ground cir- grounded and internal case of the EUT is
either be connection may cuits as well. The ground
normal mode A, if that is the internally, path made
B. If path A or externally, path of connection,
tests grounding, then the the only mode of normally
pin in order to injection onto the ground should include
can carry the internal ground path whether determine
path should be An external ground the surge current.
pin. ground on the tests the after making only applied
connection should normally ground An external
not, as ground system and be made to the local
to a remote ground through impedance Fig. 18.35(b)
used on the EUT, ground is actually point. If a remote
special study. the matter deserves then
7 inter al
surge
generator
groun inters.
structure Ibe
l
-7 . ( .)
",,internal.groud Z
bus
(b)
on a grounded system. Fig. 18.35 Pin injection

as in is basically the same The test procedure
to each pin, one Tests should be applied §18.5.1.
exception of any pin at a time, with the possible pin
lo- ground bus to an external connecting the internal
grounded internally, ground bus is ground. If the cal
in or- pins, applied to grounded be should still pulses
capable of carrying is wiring ground verify that der to
currents. surge
test stresses in- applied: This type of of stress Type
also allows case, but and components sulation between
ground bus, to the components to flow through current
may provide a ther- thus 18.35, and shown in Fig. I as
Whether or not such components as well. mal stress to
of circuit and the type on flow depends does current
powered or not. whether the system is may depend on
it may make lit- types of circuit element For some
buses not the internal ground difference whether or tle
with the inductive Such may be the case are grounded.
If a EUT is to top of Fig. 18,34. device shown at the
and §18.5.2, it both conditions, §18.5.1 is be tested under
the tests on such compo- better to repeat is probably
the tests trying to analyze whether nents, rather than
may be internal circuit be redundant. There might
by inspection. not readily revealed paths
may result loading: Circuit loading Effects of circuit
lower developed on a pin being the voltage actually in in
open circuit condi- than observed under in magnitude
power level of response and the tions. This is a normal
to compen- should not be adjusted the surge generator
generator circuit may load the sate. It is because the
is controlled. that impedance of generators
Circuits Protected 18.6.3
may be fitted with as in Fig. 18.36, Some circuits,
with circuit protective and others may be fitted filters
or metal oxide varistors such as spark gaps, devices,
should these practice, general a As diodes. protective
the test since one of the rea- left connected during
to verify that the protective de- sons for making tests is
when flow that currents surge the withstand can vices
the devices operate.
of if the EUT ap- devices: Even Status protective
the test, some type of pears to function normally after
inspection should be made to verify that the protective
inspection been damaged. A visual devices have not
are known if the test currents be sufficient, but may
the protective device the limits of to have approached
be appropriate. detailed inspection may a more
483