are duration and magnitudes Such seconds. 0.3 about one current, of pulses two commonly more or craft,
of phase current continuing the in found frequently the discharging it, another aircraft and the charging
The current, though, level. ground at measured flashes of or hundreds tens several by seperated being pulses
amplitude higher included many it steady, not was of out and into pulses the The shape of nanoseconds.
The current. underlying an on superimposed pulses will mechanisms the since different be will aircraft the
3.25 of Fig. current the which with recording channel characteris- the have will One different. somewhat be
con- the allowed that response DC α had measured was 1 Chapter in discussed discharges negative of the tics
fre- the but faithfully, recorded be to tinuing current pos.. of the characteristics the have will other the and
insufficient Hz, 400 to only extended response quency discharges. itive
indi- the of waveshape and amplitude the to resolve fur- will air they the into extend discharges As the
pulses. vidual pro- tips and, their field at electric the enhance ther
to continue will sufficient, field is the ambient vided
thus act discharges directed oppositely two grow. The
of the portion of one out charge electrical to transfer - 9.6 220-
.0 of another portion aircraft into the and through air
air. the 0- - 9.4 .
dis- α such that conditions 3.20 illustrated Fig.
3.2 end, aft the at exit and nose - the at start charge would
- depending also possible, are paths discharge other but
200 elec- the to _ relative 0 aircraft the of F orientation the on
-2.8- (not all) discharges most F-106Β field. On the tric -560
.35 0 wing on the exit points .Ξ6 but boom, nose the involved 1.16 .70 0 microseconds microsecolds aircraft one α larger On were common. tips and tail
other than points at start to discharges might expect
280 ι 5.1- the nose. -
0 Waveshape of current: The durreat flowing through Q 140- γ 3.4 0. For sen- fields. electromagnetic produces aircraft the
and electric the 3.23, Fig. on indicated as located ρ sors Α ρ "
the would have derivatives, their and fields, magnetic
0 and Δ-dot the -106Β only the F- On -140 shapes. indicated - - 0 ,
the record to sufficient bandwidth had sensors Β-dot
I- 1.4- of rate to the corresponding Δ-dot phenomena; above
0 1.26 .63 0 1.04 the to corresponding Β-dot and field electric of change
msicroseconds nicroseconds simpli- are plots The field. magnetic of change of rate pulse second second pulse caused by behavior any ignoring of extent the to fled
the aircraft. of the resonances
data. strike Β-dot and Δ-dot Inflight 3.24 Fig. like look to expected could be records Actual
fea- general to with respect only 3.23 Fig. in those
typical another of the character shows 3.25 Fig. and pulses single that both it is significant but tures,
from α the outputs showing figure flash, the air- lightning on the data measured in the are seen double pulses
on α recorder as measured sensors of different number air The initial [3.56]. examples 3.24 shows craft. Fig.
is the shown Also 100 kHz. Hz to 400 with bandwidth of α microsecond in α fraction place breakdown takes
bandwidth. Hz to 400 α dc with recorded current fin to excite sufficient content high frequency α has and
of α change with associated is current of pulse Each that waves current produce and resonances aircraft
from the of light burst and α (Δ-dot) field electric the of extremities the between and forth back propagate
the flash. of channel important resonances are These aircraft the aircraft.
also recorded was Fig. 3.26 of current The fin and of electric the coupling may enhance they in that
every samples taking recorder transient α digital with in the aircraft. wires to the fields magnetic
first of the details 3.27 shows nanoseconds. Fig. 40 which event α triggered of facets are other There
of triggering time fin, the the from of current pulse Fig. For example, [3.56]. α second as as long can last
occur of current Pulses 3.25. Fig. on indicated being flow- current the flashes different for three shows 3.25
50 amplitude highest ps. The every about average on of Each fin. vertical F-106Β of the tip the ing in
are nature of this currents kA. Lightning 18 pulse was of average current α continuing produced the flashes
level. at ground not noted lasting for and of 80 amperes on the order amplitude
60