Electrically Conducting Composites objectives: 6.5 Design em- laminates solid CFC Moat
from 2 ranging thicknesses skins have aircraft as ployed
0.20 in). The 20 plies (5 mm, 0.02 in) to plies (0.5 umm, resins composites include Electrically conductive
and constructions, in sandwich are used skins thinner fibers of carbon arrangements various with reinforced
of Skins as solid skins. employed are thicker laminates boron with resins reinforced other other and or yarns,
conduct lightning safely thicknesses can of these any also known (CFC), composites Carbon fiber filaments.
protection thus the strike points; from away currents the most are by far composites, graphite-epoxy as
as follows: are objectives design but all in use, are ,omposites boron Some common.
of these were designed prior to 1980 because economic
crack- (i.e. puncture, damage Prevent hazardous the 1. have precluded of CFC advantages and structural
use of boron in modem design. The protection designs ing) at strike attachment points in Zones 1A, 2A,
described in this section will therefore deal with CFC, and 2B. IB
though a brief discussion of lightning effects on boron
among paths lightning current adequate Provide 2. section. of this end at the is included composites
In CFC joints. at prevent damage to so as parts,
accomplished be must objective Skins tanks, this of CFC fuel Protection 6.5.1
fuel could ignite which or sparking arcing without
spark sup- and arc for methods Design vapors. lightning [6.21], 4 and Chapter in described As
7. in Chapter discussed are pression including py- CFC skins, to cause damage strikes may
rolysis of, resin and fracture of laminates due to shock
wave effects. These effects occur at or near points of 3. Lightning direct effects protection designs for
lightning attachment and are due primarily to stroke CFC must be coordinated with other electrical
system such as EMI control, power with the requirements, currents. Thus, they may occur in all zones,
and lightning indirect effects protec- exception of Zone 3. The extent of this damage de- grounding,
pends on the type and thickness of the CFC skins, the tion design.
thickness of finishes and paints, and the intensity of
on or not depends is required Whether protection sur- Experience has shown that lightning strike. the
the conse- skin and the CFC of purpose the structural integral, to action related closely is most damage face
flight a damage represents If this of damage. oc- quences may that damage physical typical 6.41 shows Fig.
is punc- if a pressure hull as may occur safety hazard, in Zone CFC skin cur to an unprotected IA.
tured or a control surface is delaminated, protection
SllNAE
Fig. 6.41 Extent of damage to a CFC skin.
Front side (b) Back side N()
149