of the transient on the actual system. Such α situa- distortion caused by saturation of the transformer.
ýion oc'-.rs whr-" τ system must be evaluated for up- Factors affecting the performance of injection trans-
,. F, olves α pulse- formers are discussc- in §18.3.
generator. -,'Agie ' [ " :)" '' τ'•. 'ρ "... tranaformer 1 through passed is ttor Cauren pu ...... te 01.1
"α primary winding on α magnetic core and sets up
"α magnetic field in that core. If the core is placed
around α cable interconnecting two pieces of electronic
contained field magnetic concentrated the equipment,
in that core induces current or voltage in the intercon-
necting wiring in α manner very similar to that pro- 2 Tnformer
duced by distributed magnetic flux from an external
lightning source. 11
Generator Transient (TG)
/77ectio
Tnanormer Fig. 18.3 Injection into several cables simultaneously.
IAt Z18.2.3 Capacitive Injection
For injection of high frequency voltages and cur-
(α) rents, capacitive injection, shown in Fig. 18.4, can be
Transient Generator (TG) considered as α simulation of electric field effects. Dis-
crete capacitors, Fig. 18.4(α), are appropriate for in-
jection into individual conductors. Where connection
ι tof α discrete capacitor might upset the circuit, an al-
for ternative would be to use α distributed capacitor, Fig.
I I 18.4(β). The distributed capacitor is also appropriate
EUT : NUTZ for injection into α group of conductors. Tests may be
Q _done either to check for system upset or to check for
............ . system damage.
(β) Transient Generator (TG)
Fig. Tfransformner 18.2 injection. () TasetGnrtr(Γ
(α) Injection of voltage
(β) Injection of current discrete
Τ,, cur- and voltages of injection involve may Tests
rents into unshielded cables, Fig. 18.2(α), or injection IUri U
of currents into the shields of cables, Fig. 18.2(β). J _
Some tests involve injection of transients into several
( cables simultaneously, Fig. 18.3. Tests may either be .............................
done either at levels appropriate to check for system Tr α τ Generator (TO)
upset or at higher levels to check for system damage.
When injecting current into several cables of an inter-
connected system there may be problems of how to
control the division of current among the various ca- distributed
bles. Some of these problems are discussed in §18.7.1, "pacitor
but deal- for procedures not yet standardized there are
-__________
ing with interconnected systems.
(β) .................. Procedures for conducting transformer injection
tests are discussed further in §18.6. Fig. 18.4 Capacitive injection.
"Transformers work best for injection of current. 4(α) Discrete coupling capacitors
Injection of voltage transients may be hampered by (β) Distributed coupling capacitance
468