gered lightning. For that, the source term is the cur-
rent aE conducted into the air from the aircraft.
The of analysis could be starting point in this type
distributed, is charge electrical way of the knowledge
both on the aircraft and in the air surrounding the air-
craft, because these suffice to calculate the electric field
surrounding the aircraft. If all the charges are station-
ary then Eq. 10.41 collapses into Poisson'σ equation:
V20 (10.45) = -π/eo
whence
0(10.46) =
-Eqs. E
Generally, however, one does not try to calculate
the electric field from any knowledge of the charges in
the clouds; one simply makes an assumption as to what
the electric field would be in the absence of the aircraft
and calculates the response of the aircraft to that field,
including, if necessary, the effects of any pre-existing
charge on the aircraft. Calculations are made to de-
termine the way electric charge is distributed on the
aircraft. From these one can calculate the electric field
strength at the surface of the aircraft and so calculate
the current conducted into the air. oE
Air conductivity: The conductivity of the air is
course, nonlinear; poorly conducting until the electric
field gets high enough to cause breakdown and very
highly conducting as breakdown occurs. The result is
that there is only α negligible current conducted into
the air until breakdown occurs, but considerable cur-
rent afterwards. That current then acts as α souzce of
charge onto the aircraft, which affects the electric fields
and may set in motion events that lead to α complete
triggered lightning flash. Calculating the response of
the aircraft to the current, though, is done in the same
way as for α naturally occurring lightning flash.
Impinging third type of source is that in- fields: Α
volved when the electromagnetic field from α lightning
designated Lightning Electromag- channel, commonly
aircraft. Then the upon impinges Pulse (LEMP), netic
charges currents and the calculate is to the problem
This is by the incident LEMP. induced on the vehicle
problem and classical electromagnetic scattering the
equa- Maxwell'σ to evaluate techniques special requires
equations Maxwell'σ to cast is approach One tions.
field the electric such as [10.20], form integral into an
field integral or the magnetic (EFIE) equation integral
(MFIE), whose frequency domain forms are equation
given by:
EFIE
η η 2 I{-ω poeoJ.(ρ')- xAx Eo(ρ,ω)
2wjweo
+ (V'•)((V'. J.(ρ)]}da' (10.47)

MFIE
,
V')O)da' ξ ξ 2Α = ξ J,(ρ'ω + Ho(ω) ω) J,(ρ,
2 (10.48)
where represents 0 ε"kR)/R.
In these equations, Eo(ρ,ω) are the and Ho(ρ,ω)
incident electric and magnetic fields, R is the vector
between the observation point (ρ) and the integration
den- current surface induced the is and (ρ') point J.
in integration The solution. desired the is which sity,
air- 10.48 is over the surface of the 10.47 and
craft. Strictly speaking, these equations are only true
for perfect conductors, but approaches have beer de-
veloped to include lossy elements in integral equation
formalisms.
Note that the integral equations have the un-
known appearing in the integrand. The solutions are
typically obtained by the Method of Moments (MOM)
[10.21].
Another approach to solving the scattering prob-
lem is to invoke the equivalence principle [10.22]. In
this approach the scattering object is completely sur-
rounded by an imaginary closed surface. On this sur-
of face, one defines equivalent electric and magnetic cur-
rent sources J, and Μ, for use in Maxwell'σ equations.
These sources, called Huygen'σ sources, are tangen-
tial to the closed surface and are derived solely from
the incident field which would exist in the absence
of the scattering object. Therefore, if one knows the
sources and Μ,, Maxwell'σ equations can be used J.
to calculate the electromagnetic response everywhere
in space, given the appropriate boundary conditions.
This approach is commonly used to solve the scattering
problem in the time domain finite difference method
[10.23].
Survey of Interaction Models 10.7
are models interaction available this section, In
finite classes: two important fall into They surveyed.
solutions. equation integral and solutions difference
Difference Finite Domain Time 10.7.1
Approaches
the response implies that time domain The term
is calculated as α function of time, as con- of α system
trasted to the frequency in which the response domain
do- time All frequency. of function α as calculated is
main solutions calculate the response of α system at
at α previous time steps, uaing the response specific
time step to calculate the response at the next time
step.
287