FAST WAVE SLOW WAVE>
V 1.2 pp
370 _ 367
372 373
(α) , 0.6 V pp
.. 368 - _
. .switch
(β)
Fig. 8.19 Voltages on α fore and aft circuit
(α) Line to ground voltages
(Π22, Pin 24 to airframe).
(β) Line to line voltage
(Π22, Pin 24 - Pin 25).
The voltages induced on that switch circuit are
shown in Fig. 8.20. The voltages measured from line
to airframe were higher than those measured from line
to line, but it is significant that the line to line volt-
ages, while of α somewhat different waveshape, were
not much lower than the line to ground voltages. The
reason for this lay in the fact that the load impedances
in the interface box in the gun bay were different from
each other on the two sides of the circuit. One side
connected to α power supply bus, while the other side
probably connected to an emitter follower.
Another significant feature about these voltages
was that they were again of an oscillatory nature.
They were apparently excited by the leakage of mag-
netic flux inside the aircraft and were not excited by
the rise in potential along the structural resistance of
the aircraft.

Fig. 8.20 Voltages induced in wing position indicator
open plug Π22. circuit at
Circuits to actuators: Figs. 8.21 and 8.22 show volt-
ages measured on two different circuits going to actu-
ators, one (Fig. 8.21) going to the left pitch actuator
and the other (Fig. 8.22) going to the left roll actuator.
In both cases the voltages displayed were the output of
the driver amplifier used to control the servo valve in
the actuator. Both of these were differential measure-
ments, line-line voltage measurements. The significant
feature about these measurements was, again, that the
characteristic response was oscillatory and apparently
excited by the leakage of magnetic flux inside the air-
craft. There was some dependence of the voltage on
the path of current followed through the aircraft, but
the dependence was not large. Both lightning current
paths pioduced about the same peak voltage of tran-
sient.
Bulk cable currents: On the F-8, as is typical of
most aircraft, the control wires were laced together
into fairly large bundles. The routing of some typical
bundles in the gun bay housing the backup and in-
terface electronic control boxes is shown in Fig. 8.23.
236