as serves program Kester the in explosion The
conceivably might consequence α similar that warning
fuel actual in cources ignition. Pn multiple from result
design, taken is care of means by unless, system
situations. such eliminate
these not or whether of question The study: Gillis'
vent tank fuel actual in occur could ignitions explosive
Avi- Federal the that importance such of was systems
study another yet undertook Administration ation
work, con- The systems. in vent flame propagation
earlier research upon [7.22], expanded ducted. by Gillis
long in the of flame behavior the study by including
to the surge tanks from the leading inboard vent lines
vent complete, α typical, comprise which tanks, fuel
lightning simulated not use Gillis did [7.231. system
discharged 100 but, instead, an ignition source arcs for
out- the vent at plug α spark into electrical energy J of
by released be would than energy less much is This let.
Gillis Nevertheless, the same length. arc of α. lightniDg
300 μ/σ to that had accelerated [7.24] recorded flames
climb was in the aircraft when far inboard ft/σ) (1000
condition.
The total number of authentic tests performed by
Gillis was 13, of which 11 resulted in flame velocities
150 μ/σ (500 ft/σ) or higher. The occurrer.-ε of such
high speeds is perhaps best explained in Gillis' own
words [7.25]:
When an explosive gas is confined in α chan-
nel and ignited, the flowv induced by the thermal
wave is re- expansion of the gas in the combustion
stricted by the channel wall. Consequently, the flow
attains much higher velocities than under conditions
of free expansion in an open flame and flame and flow
commonly augment each other by α feedback mecha-
nism as follows: stream turbulence, however slight it
may be initially, produces α wrinkling of the combus-
increase of surface the resulting tion wave surface;
increases the amount of gas burning per unit time,
namely, the flow of gas in the channel; this in turn
produces more turbulence and hence, increased wrin-
kling of the wave, and so on, so that the progress of
the combustion wave becomes nonsteady and self ac-
celerating. In addition, the burning velocity increases
as the unburned gas ahead of the flame is preheated
and precompressed that arealihin by the compression waves andrted the mass acceleration in the combustion
generated teral by
wave. The compression wave is initially α compara-
tively weak pressure wave, which is overtaken and re-
inforced during its travel by numerous other pressure
waves originating in the combustion zone. The coa-
lescence of these pressure waves into α strong shock
front in α configuration which is dead-ended can re-
suit in α reflection of the shock wave back toward the

this of the passage of effect The zone. combustion α
is wave combustion the through wave shock reflec.ted
by pressure of release α sudden of effect to the similar
prop- wave rarefaction Α α diaphragm. of rupture α to
of α jet and gas unburned the into backward agates
into deeply which penetrates gas develops unburned
un- and burned between shear The gas. burned the
ex- produces configuration flow this in burned gas
in increase large α sudden that so turbulence treme
occurs. rate burning the of
local- above, tests mentioned the 13 In three of
sufficient to of intensity developed pressures were ized
the rectangu- sections of μ (3 to 5 ft) 1 to 1.5 distort
test pressure hydrostatic Α subsequent vent duct. lax
that duct showed of similar ft) section 1 μ (3.3 of α
to was required 475 psig of approximately α pressure
the This pressure exceeds distortion. produce similar
and tank fuel aircraft typical of limitations structural
structures. vent
located just surge tank that the concluded Gillis
to contributing was α factor the vent outlet inboard of
it α flame reaches when because, flame speeds the high
to build pressure permitted outlet, the from the vent
up in it serves as α force to drive flames rapidly down
of the vent lines towards the fuel tanks. This creates
turbulence in these ducts which further serves to ac-
celerate flames down the ducts.
Gillis' work is perhaps the best demonstration to
date that flames traveling at sonic velocities with dam-
aging overpressures can occur in typical transport air-
craft vent systems. Since flame arresters or surge tank
protection systems reliably capable stopping such of
are not yet available, the importance of pre- flames
venting any source of ignition within or near the vent
system is very clear.
Summary and Recommendations 7.3.4
flame ve- ignition and summarizes the Table 7.1
locity results for each of the research programs just
discussed. While not all of the answers to lightning-
related vent flame questions are in hand, α number of
important conclusions and protection considerations
can be drawn from the research.
Although there has been no positive evidence that 1.
α ltning tre has ee ρ ν ite eventeethat
stkeasvrigtdavntflut
on α transport type aircraft, there have been sev-
in-flight explosions which occurred following
strike attachments within α meter or so of vent
outlets. This suggests, though it does not prove,
that ignition of vent effluent has been the cause
of some accidents.
2. For ignition to occur, α lightning type arc must
attach directly to, or within α few centimeters of,
179