currents. The segmented diverters thus guide, rather
than conduct, the flash across the protected surface,
di- and ionization process of segmented The structure
Fig. 6.31. verters are shown in
Segmented diverters have been used on many
radome systems. The field experience to date indi-
cates that for most applications, they appear to be
almost as effective as solid diverters.
Σ/
I II....
ι___
diverters. 6.30 Segmented Fig.
Ionization: In order for segmented diverters to ionize,
there must be an electric field tangential to the length
of the diverter. This is provided by the approaching
lightning leader, or by intense ambient fields that pre-
cede an aircraft triggered strike.
Effect of internal conductors: Conductors beneath
the structure being protected can affect the perfor-
imme- Α conductor diverters. mance of segmented
short out most of the beneath the strip will diately
tangential electric field and inhibit ionization of the
diverter. Even if the diverter does ionize, there will be
α voltage rise along it and that voltage may be suffi-
cient to cause puncture to the internal conductor. This
can also happen when tubes or antennas are placed on
Positioning radome. of the inside surface or near the
the will improve the skin away from conductors such
situation.
Spacing between diverters: The maximum spacing
between segmented diverters, and the minimum per-
missible spacing to underlying conductors, is depen-
dent, among other things, upon the amount of voltage

required to ionize the segmented strips. Ideally, the
ionization voltage (electric field strength might be α
to ion- be lower than that required better term) would
radome and the bare surface of the ize α path along
also much lower than that required to puncture the
radome. Laboratory tests have shown the ionization
levels of several strip designs to be 20 to 50 kV per
meter. This is much less than the 500 to 700 kV per
meter required 'to ionize the air across an insulating
surface.
RESISTANCE MATERIAL CONNECTING SEGMENTS
φ~~~~~~DIELIECTRIC SUBSTR[ATIE RSSAC UTII
RESISTANCE MATERIAL
SPA•KS SEGMENT
-• °I (SUTTON--)
DIELECTRIC
SUBSTRATE
CONTINUOUS MO-
TROKE INI
CURRENTS
(β)
Fig. 6.31 Design and breakdown process
in segmented diverters.
(α) Design
Breakdown and conduction process (β)
Breakdown voltage: Ionization of segmented divert-
era is α highly nonlinear process and the total voltage
required to cause ionization, when applied end to end,
may change very little as the length of the strip is var-
ied. Ionization probably proceeds from the ends in
the propagat- similar to propagating manner, α self
test 2. The 1 and in Chapters ing leaders discussed
measurement characteristics, generator configuration,
connections and gaps between the generator and the
strip have been observed to significantly alter the test
results and the conditions to cause ionization are not
understood as well as one might like. Laboratory com-
parisons of various diverter designs may not be sufli-
141