Σ
I.Si,,0, magni. The channel. leader the left in charge the
tude of the current is determined by the velocity with 1
which this return stroke propagates, together with the τ I,,•
amount of charge deposited in the leader channel. Let • 0.9 io
I
v be the velocity of the return stroke and q be the
dI, unit length, along 1 6.re amount of charge deposited per
the leader channel. Since
(2.2) dq o 0 -
dt 0λ mI and
STROKI CURRINT IN KILOA•Π•PURS
dl
and current between stroke Relation 2.13 Fig. (2.3) dl v
τ'Τ velocity of return stroke [2.21].
it follows that
=qv. (2.4) 100kA I
As α numerical example let
λ-5)As •τ<
μ/slq = = v ρ and 10 ξ C/mr 10-4
Σ200Α
Then - -
I Ξ 10-4 XII = 10 λ
104 10 ξ =
1OOkV/μ Α. 000 100 =
The velocity of the return stroke is not constant 10kV/ -
from one stroke to the next; it seems to vary with kV/μ 5
the magnitude of current that is ultimately developed.
The relationship between current and velocity may (β)
be deduced either from theoretical concepts or Exper-
imentally. The relationship derived by Wagner [2.211 40 9/μ
is shown in Fig. 2.13. Considerations of the return
stroke velocity are primarily of importance in study-
ing the time history of the electric field produced by
the lightning flash. Measurements of electric field pro-
Q/μ 0.1 to used been have flashes lightning remote by duced
estimate the peak current in those flarhes.
There is evidence that the velocity decreases as (C)
the return stroke propagates up the channel and this
would suggest that for α given flash the peak current at
altitude would be less than the peak amplitude mea-
passage with associated Phenomena 2.14 Fig. the affect also velocity may The level. ground at sured
stroke. return the of the thus and stroke, lighting of the impedance surge
(α) Current. conductor with α metallic that the stroke interacts way
voltage (β) Longitudinal like an aircraft.
resistance (χ) Longitudinal
Factors affecting velocity: The velocity of propaga-
the the current in the fact that phenomenon is to the that of the speed is less than the return stroke tion of
rapidly from the lightning channel must increase fairly reasons. The first reason in- of light for two basic
volves the longitudinal resistance of the return stroke 200 Α (approximately) current associated with the ini-
channel. Some of the factors associated with this lon- tial development of the leader to α current of perhaps
gitudinal resistance are shown in Fig. 2.14. Central 100 kA as the return stroke becomes fully developed.
25