Fig. 37.10, ars generally supplied to relate sparkover
voltage to rato of change of voltags. Catalog apecif-
cation sheets generally cite the sparkover voltage for
very slowly changing voltages. Rated sparkover volt-
nnn
about 100 volts. Sparkover voltages for rapidly chang-
ing voltages may be substantially higher.
Normally, one should not consider spark gaps as
the primary means for coutrol of surges unless the
equipment to be protected can withstand several hui-
dreds oi volts.
10030
5c00 Surgo Batas oL Biae
2000 AOOS
Volts
1
Voltage 1000
Striking 500
200
10 10- 10 10-* 10 10
Reuponse Time - Seconds
Fig. 17.10 Volt-time curve of a spark gap.
Recevery: Once a gap has sparked over, the current
in the gap will be governed by the impedance of the
circuit and the normal operating voltage. Current wil!
continue to flow as long as the circuit is energized at a
voitage greater than a fow tcns of volts. Gaps used for
industrial macninery and commercial power syste:ns
can be made self-extinguishing for applied voltages up
to about 100 V by using magnetic feld-. :o blkw anc
cool the arc, but they are not applicable for aircraft.
use.
Current rating: Small spark gaps generally can carry
peak currents of several thousana amperes for surges

.lasting a few tens of microseconds and several hun-
dreds of amnperes fct surges lasting a few milliseconds.
Catalog shests do not always cleariy state the dura-
tlon of surge ciurent for which the specifled peak cur-
rent applies, but for airçraft protection the matter is
of little importance sincs: amost any gap caui casry all
the surge current likely to appear on internal aircraft
wiring.
Spark gaps intended primarily for telephone cir-
cuits may bo called upon to carry power system cur-
rent for some period of time if the vires have comne
into contact with power lines: The allowable current,
ard its duration, are commonly şpecified by a curve,
of which Fig. 17.11 is an example. Some gap assem-
blies are provided with thermal links which cause the
circuit to be permanently shorted if current fows for
an excessively long time. Such thermal lirks are not
likely to be of value in aircraft applications.
12f 1 (Amps, rms)
Current 10 -
в
4
2+
2 10 14 18 22
Discharge Time Duration t (sec)
Fig. 17 11 Allowable ampere-tin.e curve
frr a spark: gar.
Residual voltages: Until such time as a spark gap
ionizes, it has no effect on circuit voltage. Some resid-
ual surge voltage, Fig. 17.12, may be passed onto the
rest of the circuit. Should this residual surge voltage
be a problem it can often be suppressed with metal
oxide or zener diode devices.
Fig. 17.12 Residual voltage.
Sometines spark gaps are applied to a pair of con-
ductors, ar in Fig. 17.13(a). Ideally, in response to a
common mode surge, the two spark gaps should ionize
at the same time. If separate spark gaps are used, one
of them may ionize before the other, resulting in a high
voltage between the conductors, as in Fig. 17.13(b).
Tc minimize this problem, three-electrode spark gaps
are available. Sparkover of one half results in ioniza-
442