doors, in which case, )ong thin open slots are created.
The coupling through such seams is on the borderline
between the %perture coupling described in this chap-
ter and the diffusion coupling described in Chapter
Coupling into seams may be discussed in terms
of Fig. 12.19, Which shows α lightning current of den-
sity flowing acrose the seam. The current, flowing J.
through the transfer impedance of the seam creates
imped- Tfransfer interior surface. rise on the voltage
awi typically has two components: α resistive compo-
nent due to the flow of current through resistive films
or through resistive fas' eners and an inductive compo-
nent due to leakage of magnetic fields. The resistive
component generally predomiuates when overlappiag
metal surfaces are joined permanently with rivets K
bohs. With surfaces that are easily separable, such
bays, to equipment entry panels providing as access
An may predominate. inductive component the
pedance proportional to the square root of frequency
is frequently observed if the faying surfaces make good
metal-to-metal contact and the seam' is fastened with
multiple tightly fitting rivets [12.15]. Such an imped-
ance is characteristic of the diffusion coupling mecha-
nism discussed in Chapter 11.
- seam impedance
....
.
() χ12.11
RCL
 JS 7- - (β)
* RESISTIVE SEAM: V smands
3
Vs,, Las SINDUCTIVE SEAM:
=TRANSFER , RESISTANCEN Transfer
INOUO'TANCE--'" TRANSFER ε ' Impdmncg !Z
ACTS - Vg AS Α SOURCE WHICH DRIVES INTERIOR OF
SHIELDED VOLUME
Fig. 12.19 Seams and joints,

Seam impedances have amplitudes in the range
to 1 0. μ, with typical values on the order of 10-6
μ. The lowest resistance is, of course, asso- 10' Qi.
11. ciated with the most tightly joined contacts.
12.10 Incorporation of Seam Impedances into
Numerical Solutions
α
be impedances can easily concept of seam The
used to calculate internal fields in cavities with the 3Δ
finite difference technique. For example, for α seam
with resistive and inductive components, the potential
across the seam is:
(LOJ./.τ + RJ,)
or (12.75) Et -
where
the joint electric field in = transverse im- Et
seam inductance = Λ
= seam resistance R
Α. finite difference cell size =
These values of E in the seam aperture create α
boundary condition on electric fields which is used to
of Because equations. difference finite Maxwell'σ solve
fields the code, of type this in needed cell size finite the
not are the aperture from away cells one or two within
accurately modeled, but the fields further than that
examples of com- modeled. There are are accurately
parisons of this method to experiment for nuclear elec-
tromagnetic pulse coupling to shelters, with excellent
agreemenit [12.16 - 12.18).
Analysis of Complex Apertures
Classical methods (integral-equation techniques,
small hole theory) of analyzing apertures are con-
founded by the presence of irregularly-shaped cavities
conductors. It appears that numerical which contain
techniques provide the best hope for solving realistic
geometries. These techniques, such as the finite differ-
pos- Α geometries. irregular solve can method, ence
resolve to order in that, is however, limitation, sible
small geometrical features, small grid size and time
steps must be used, which may place unreasonable de-
on computer resourcev,
which can be used are techniques, however, There
to solve the aircraft external interaction response with
α large grid, and then use the large grid results to
aircraft the of aperture) an (ε.γ., subset small α solve
with α smaller grid which can resolve the geometrical
details. Three approaches are presented here: α tech-
nique based on the equivalence principle; an approxi-
mate technique based on the uniqueness theorem; and
α nested subgrid approach.
340