α conductor in free space Z will be on the order of
ohms. When the wave reaches α discontinuity,
as the end of the surface or α point where one surface
joins another surface of different size or orientation,
will be generated and the total α reflected wave
will be given by the sum of the initial wave and
reflected wave. The reflected wave will also eventually
reach α discontinuity and generate another travelling
wave. The E and H field magnitudes of any of
wave components will be given by Eo. 10.14, but
total magnitude will be different. If current continues
to flow long enough for steady state conditions to
approached, then the electric field associated with
flow of current will go toward zero.
E
The fields at α point to which α wave will prop-
agate can be determined from the fields at the points-
previously traversed by the wave. Numerical
niques for doing this are given in §10.5 through §10.8.
The phenomenon of waves propagating back and forth
across the surface of the aircraft, or of aircraft reso-
nances excited by an outside event, is discussed further
in §10.10.
Fields of Evaluating Methods 10.5
There are α number of ways in which the electro-
magnetic field around α conductor may be evaluated.
Three of the simpler methods will be discussed here,
because they have both utility in their own right and
because they illustrate some of the techniques used in
the more powerful methods described in §10.6. Some
of the results from the method to be described
§10.5.3 will also serve to illustrate the general nature
the way that external and internal fields are influenced
by the shape of the aircraft.
Equa- Laplace'σ of Solution Numerical 10.5.1
tion
α cur- around of the field the solution Analytically
solu- α by determined be may conductor carrying rent
tion of Laplace'σ equation:
2 V (10.15) 0 0 =
where 0 the potential. =

377 In rectangular coordinates Laplace'σ equation be-
such comes:
+ + _ _ (10.16) 2 + 0. (10.16) field OX' Y + 8-2 =
the For some geometries Laplace'σ equation can be
solved analytically; an elliptical geometry is one of
those cases. The equations defining the field distri-
the bution will not be presented here, but Fig. 10.9 shows
the an example of the field around an elliptical cylinder
of infinite length. If the field is viewed as one due to
be current in the conductor, the equipotential lines depict
the the magnetic field lines, these being tangential to the
conductor at its surface. If the field is viewed as one
due to α static charge on the conductor, the lines di-
rected into the conductor depict the electric field lines;
the paths along which displacement currents flow.
I
tech-Α2AS
44AS, 4 H H
Fig. 10.9 The field around an elliptical conductor.
The return path for either the voltage maintaining
the charge or the current is assumed to be sufficiently
far away from the conductor that it does not influence
the field around the indicated region.
in The indicated flow lines divide the region into 44
of sectors. At the surface of the conductor, the magnetic
field strength is inversely proportional to the spacing
between the flow lines. Since the average field strength
is surface around the
(10,17) = H 1/Π,
between surface at the field strength that the follows it
is lines flow two any
Hsurface = (10.18) 44Α---
In only the simplest geometries is it possible to
calculate the field analytically. Usually one must resort
280