3 of Fig. 1, 1. into region the voltage is increased If
some of the electrons emitted from the cathode will noead
(1.3) 1 in sufficient force that with gas molecules with collide N = -
be knocked will electron collisions of these some Pm. ρ generalized is the coefficient the where secondary electron, was one there Where molecule. the from
ρ con- process α the includes coefficient. ionization positively one plus be two electrons will now there
such processes other also but Thompson, by sidered the under move then will electrons Both ion. charged
metastable photons and ions, of positive action the as gas more strike turn in will and field the of influence
sparking voltage the Finally, at cathode. at the atoms re- The electrons. more still liberate and molecules
col- will voltage the and down break will gap the V., of number total The avalanche. electron an is sult
achievement or the breakdown, for criterion Α lapse. group of α of acceleration the by produced electrons
that be would breakdown, α self-sustaining of be will electrons
(1.4) 0. ρ(ead-1) (1.1) > no ead N- =
source of ioniza- met, the initial If this criterion is ν,, is the of electrons, is the final number N- where
continue and the current would be removed tion could the distance tra- and δ is of initial electrons number
only by the impedance value limited to increase to α still not be self-sustaining discharge will versed. The
circuit. the external of the current is removed source of ionization since if the
an attach- the effect of and 1.4 include Eqs. 1.3 will cease.
that act to are factors ι since there ment coefficient first ioniza- Thompson'σ quantity α is called The
attachment co- ionization and electrons. The capture the number of electrons and indicates tion coefficient
the 25 kV/μ 1.2. Below on Fig. are shown efficients of 1 α distance electron traveling α single by produced
hence an avalanche is the larger, coefficient attachment and on the the gas density of on the It depends cm.
kV/μ. This less than 25 in α field develop cannot field deter- The electric electric field. of the strength
condi- atmospheric sea level to standard curve relates and the accelerated electrons are much the mines how
are discussed non-standard conditions tions. Effects of may move far an electron determines how gas density 0
in §1.5.5. and liberates an- α gas molecule it collides with before
avalanche that an electron It follows other electron.
2000 gas. The in dense than in rarified will proceed faster
be electrons are liberated will from which molecules
in 1000 be accelerated and will α positive charge left with
α direction opposite to the electrons, but their mass 500_
they so electrons, of the than the mass more is much
200 much more slowly. move
100" current into region 3 the is increased If the voltage
Τ
law of exponential from the simple begins to depart
50" E to current increased the Thompson ascribed 1.1. Eq.
the positively from the motion of resulting ionization
20" current total the σ considered and molecules, charged
δ 10" of to the motion one due two components, to have
the the motion of and one due to Eq. 1.1, electrons,
by α similar and governed charged particles positively
2- relationship.
(1.2) 1 !* N+- ν+ead
125 100 75 50 25 0
E (kV/cm) charged of positively final number is the N+ where
coefficient. and attachment 1.2 Ionization Fig. δ is the distance number and no+ is the initial particles,
traversed.
Effects Streamer sec- 1.3 designated Thompson'σ was 6 The quantity
that ioniza- It is now known ond ionization coefficient.
though con- of Eq. 1.4, breakdown criterion The to account for the is insufficient by positive ions tion
is since the process is seldom used ceptually simple, Instead, the 3 of Fig. 1.1. in region increased current
as- Breakdown is instead complicated. much more taken to be of electrons is number
2