and lightning magnetic force effects. In sandwich
skins with foam or honeycomb cores, the mounting
teners are often surrounded by plastic inserts to
vent moisture from entering the cores,
If solid diverters are installed on the outside sur-
face, they may cause some drag. This can be
mized by orienting the bars parallel to the airstream,
by ahaping the cross section of the bars aerodynami-
cally, or by embedding the diverters into the external
surfaces of the skins,
Fig. 6.28 Solid diverters on α radome.
Internal diverters: Embedding solid diverters
α composite skin creates tooling and manufacturing
problems and may also degrade the strength of the
because of stress concentrations along the required
grooves. An alternative is to mount solid diverters
on the inside surface, with metal fasteners, sometimes
called studs protruding through the wall to serve
lightning attachment points, as shown in Fig. 6.29.
Although this type of diverter installation may reduce
the aerodynamic drag created by external mounting,
it does not take advantage of the insulation capabil-
ity of the dielectric wall, and internal side flashes
result. In addition, magnetic forces due to lightning
flashes sweeping from one stud to the next may
the diverter away from the skin.

type In general, the thicker the wall, the farther apart
fas- may be the studs. In many cases, 30 cm (1 ft) is close
pre- enough, but each individual case must be evaluated by
strike attachment tests. Appropriate test procedures
are discussed in §6.8.
mini-
Foil strips: Thin foil strips, usually made of aluminum
0.008 to 0.040 cm (0.003 to 0.015 in) thick, have oc-
casionally been used in the past, but these usually
provide protection against only one flash since they
may melt or vaporize. In such α case they leave an
ionized channel through which subsequent currents in
the same flash can travel. Protection is lost for later
flashes. Also, the exploding strip may sometimes dam-
age the adjacent composite material. For these reasons
they are not recommended for certifiable designs and
no further discussion of them will be provided.
Sexp se
Σ •~stud•
strap or tube/
~beneath
/surface
probe radome fuselage
Fig. 6.29 Internal diverter strip with protruding studs.
into Segmented diverters: Solid diverter bars tend to in-
terfere with the beam from α radar antennna, and to
skin overcome this, segmented diverters, also called "but-
ton strips," were developed [6.12 - 6.15]. These consist
of α series of thin, conductive segments, or "buttons,"
interconnected by α resistive material, and fastened to
as α thin composite strip which can then be cemented to
the surface to be protected. Typical strips [6.17] are
shown in Fig. 6.30.
Segmented diverters do not provide α metal path
to carry lightning current. Instead, they provide many
can small airgaps that ionize when α high electric field is 4
applied. Since the small gaps are close together, the
tear resulting ionization is nearly continuous and thus pro-
vides α conductive path for lightning leaders and flash
140