violate linear constraints, but it does prevent the
lem from having α single unique solution.
The linear technique can be used for either
gered or natural lightning; the distinztion being
triggered lightning begins at the aircraft and moves
away while natural lightning moves toward the
craft. Typical geometries for each of these cases
shown in Fig. 10.26. The figure shows the channel
attached to the nose of the aircraft, as often happened
on the F-106Β, but the analysis procedure allows
tachment to any point on the aircraft.
and 10.26(α) Fig. between diff.!rence The
10.26(β) is the location of the current source.
calculations simulating natural lightning the source
located at the edge of the problem space, as far
the aircraft as possible, reflecting the fact that the
tiation and driving forces for α natural lightning
occur away from the aircraft and the lightning propa-
gates towards it. For triggered lightning it is located
near the point where the channel attaches to the
craft, reflecting the fact that the flash originates at the
aircraft and propagates away from the aircraft.
Jto (α)
(β)
Fig. 10.2( 3Δ finite difference model of CV-580 aircraft,
(α) Top view
(β) Bottom view
Formation times of multiple channels: While the rou-
tines can handle multiple exit channels, it is necessary
to define in advance when they are to form; the forma- Sduring
tion times cannot be left as α matter to be calculated
the solution of the problem.

prob- edge of problem space
eema
current channel trig-
that
_ _ _ _-_,
sourcee air- N_ current sensor
I are
[
at- -- edge of problem space
I
current channel Fig.
For (
is
ensaor from
ini- [
flash current source
Fig. 10.26 Locations of current source
air- (α) Natural lightning
(β) Triggered lightning
Lightning channel geometry: The geometry of the
lightning channels should be defined since there can be
"radiation from the channels that affects the response
of the aircraft. This radiation, however, has much less
of an impact on the response than does the current in-
jected from the channel. Since the orientation of real
channels cannot be determined in advance, it is gener-
ally satisfactory just to assume the lightning channels
Fig. 10.26. as shown in lines, be straight
Channel characteristics: The channel characteristics,
the most important of which are impedance and ve-
locity of propagation, must be defined since there are
interactions between the aircraft and the channel and
these depend on the channel impedance. Elementary
aspects of this interaction were discussed in Chapter 8.
The impedance and velocity of propagation are deter-
mined from the resistance and inductance and capac-
Wr two being determined by the physical diameter of the
channel, as discussed in Chapter 2.
The analysis technique allows the investigator to
define any desired impedance characteristics of the
channel, as long as those characteristics do not depend
on the way the problem evolves. The impedance may
vary with time, but the variation must be predicted in
advance.
In an actual channel the impedance probably de-
pends on the current that has flowed through the chan-
nel, but the linear analysis technique does not allow
channel impedance to be defined as α function of cur-
rent.
291