the surge current in the lower energy device and allow
voltage to develop that initiates conduction in the high
energy device,
Incoming Surge
ρ-xAnother
-
Low Line
I
Τ
Reflection
SVARISTOR SPARK
Fig. 17.23 Paralleled protectors
physically separated.
if the Physical separation: Best protection is obtained
two surge protectors are physically separated α con-
siderable distance. For example, large MOVs or spark
gaps should be located near exposed electrical appa-
ratus such as lights and air data probe heaters, and
smaller MOVs or diodes installed closer to solid state
power controllers or other electronic equipment so that
the interconnecting wires can provide the requisite im-
pedance between high and low energy devices. Phys-
ical separation also minimizes problems of inductive
voltage drop in grounding connectors.
Resistive or inductive Isolation: Physical separation
is not always possible in aircraft applications and ad-
ditional resistance or inductance may be needed, as
shown in Fig. 17.24. Inductance may be appropri-
ate for power circuits, but has the disadvantage that
slowly changing surge currents may still pass into the
low energy protector without ever developing enough
voltage to cause conduction through the high energy
protector. Resistors ane preferable bercause the carrent
through the low energy protector can be controlled ir-
respective of the surge waveshape.
CommIercial vallabilty: Hybrid protectors corn- ae
mercilly available that have hinh and low energy pro-
tective device incorporated into α single package.
17.4.7 Surge Protecting Connector
At least two lines of activity have been pursued
with the aim of incorporating surge protective devices
directly in electrical connections. One approach 117.6)
incorporated spark gaps between the connector pins
and the connector shell. Α high dielectric material,
rutile, was used to stimulate internal flashover and

to achieve α protective level of about 1100 to 1300 V
with an impulse ratio nearly unity, even with voltage
rates of change at 10 kV/zs. This design withstood ex-
tremely large currents (100 to 250 kA). The work on
this device was performed at Sandia Laboratories and
supported by the U.Σ. Atomic Energy Commission.
line of approach uses zinc oxide varistor
material to hold the pins in α connector. This work
was being done by General Electric Company for the
U. Σ. Army Harry Diamond Laboratories.
Protective connectors are available commercially.
 7 7 7 - 7 7 7 . 7 -7-7 7
0 #01 / 4 / / 7 7 O 0 O
Fig. 17.24 Hybrid protectors.
(α) Sparkgap and MOV
(β) MOV und diode
Damage Analysis Semiconductors 17.5 -
The energy conpled into α system by lightning in-
duces large current pulses into the cabling and wiring
of the system and resulting voltage pulses across loads.
Determining whether or not these voltages and cur-
rents cause upset or damage to active or passive com-
ponents requires ν knowledge of the failure thresholds
of devices. These failure thresholds have been inves-
tigated extensimely during studies of nucleat electro-
magnetic pulse (NEMP) effects on electronic equip-
ment. The following sections will discuss some of how
damage analysis is performed.
Where vulnerability or failure involves thermal
considerationi. one difference between NEMP and light-
ning analysm must be noted. NEMP vulnerability an-
seesments are mostly made for α single pulse, but light-
ning subjects equipment to α series closely of spaced
pulses.
Semiconductor electronic -omponents are gener-
ally more vulnerable under puke conditions than are
non-semiconductor components. This discussion of
452