(a)(b
(c)
Fig. 4.8 Damaged wing tip structures to explodling navigation light wire harnesses. (tile
Left (a) wing tip, showing overpressure (lalnage to aluiuniumx outer wing
right wing showing similar (b) overpressure damage to ouiter wing tip).
des;tro~yed the .;trike in flight. Both fiberglass wingtips were by)N 1) (Note
entered (Note 2) Flash fronm the other. at one wing tip and exited
and Wave Shock 4.2.5 over rise pressure it into Overpressure transformed is wave shock the
and above that in the shock wave itself. This results
the free that in times several of ove-rpressure total init
surface. at the shock wave in ait ion- flows stroke current at lightning When
fronm the the channel distance of onl thle Depending stroke the first return as when leader channel, ized
several range up to can overpressures surface. the aircraft to is declivered of energy large amount occurs, a
in im- resulting surface, at the atmnospiheres hundred the channel causing to miicrosecond1s, 10 in 5 channel
expand with in Fig. 4.9 shown such as that dainage. piosioni type has Its tempiherature speed. supersonic to
14.81. by con- to not have dloes ning channitel light Thet 000 to he. 3(0 techniques spectroscope been measured
be swept may simiply but surface. tact the damnaged (before pressure the channel K mid degrees expansit~on)
Fig. in case shown iti the evident as; was alongside ex thle supersonic When [4.71. atmospheres 10 about it.
as restrike occurred stroke or at return 4.9. Apparently is several diameter channel the is complete, painsioit
leading below the just passed propeller of the tip thme is in uquitibihitma channel pressure the and centimeters
wave ical Shock cylind: a positioning the wing. edge channel tile air. Latter. surrounding the with of conitinutes
This 4.10. Fig. as the wing, ally beneathI horizont ion oif situnat the equilibrium to iII slowly more to expand
14.91 scorching by is sup~ported Hacker by hyviatheSis pripaglltts wave Shock The cylindrical arc. stable a
indicat anl panle!S. imploded the on paint of and, of channuel. ion of the center the from outward tilie iadially
siurce. betat at nearby in energy the kinetic intercep~tedl. is surface hard if a -
74