FKAMINT
as postulated leader 2.7 The lightning Fig.
[2.141. Wagner by
O
of air, it and the above breakdown strength From this
be 1.2 leader will radius of the that the be deduced can
the breakdown strength to 12 μ. At higher elevations
be more. of air is less; hence the leader radius may
may be of actual lightning leaders Photographs
the film moves camera, in which taken with α Boys
the lens. Fig. 2.1 illustrated relative to the camera
an example of such shows Fig. 2.8 [2.15] principle and
seen originating at the top α photograph. The leader is
as time lengthening and of the picture comer left hand
of the picture is The bright line at the right increases.
the return stroke as discussed in §2.2.5. produced by
ImS
of α 2.8 Boys camera photograph Fig.
lightning leader [2.15]
Leader From such photographs velocity and current:
advances at about. learned that the leader it ha been
of the speed of 10' μ/σ, or 0.03% to 0.06% to 2 xIx order that charge of 2 to 20 α light [2.16]. In 10-4
23

of leader advancing at the rate C be deposited by α
leader, the average current in the ξ μ/σ requires 1 101
could magnitude this of current Α Α. 200 to 20 be to ih, arc discharge, conducting in α highly carried only be
filament of the leader. central conducting the assumed
α the order of α diameter on arc would have Such an
of 91, axial voltage gradient, and an few millimeters
4 km long would then about 5 V/re. Α leader Ξ 103
 7 2 ξ 10 V. The drop along its length of have α voltage
longitudinal resistance, of the conducting filament Rh,
range of 40 to 400 per meter 11 would then be in the
(fl/Im).
it importance as regards aircraft, While of less
at the that leaders sometimes start might be noted
the sky. This hap- ground and work their way toward
or towers, or frequently from tall buildings pens most
located atop hills. Generally, from buildings or towers
the lightning flash can tell from the direction of one
started at the cloud or branching whether the leader
is downward, Fig. 2.9, at the ground: if the branching
is branching if the at the cloud; originated the leader
the ground. at originated the leader upward,
CLOuo COu
Τ
(β)
from direction as determined Fig. 2.9 Leader
direction of branching.
leader (α) Downward branching
starts at cloud
(β) Upward branching leader
starts at ground
from Leader to Return 2.2.4 Trausition
Stroke
leader ap- negatively charged stepped the As
in positive charge accumulates proaches the gound,
nesa- it or, more accurately, the ground underneath
the region under the is repelled away from charg tive
field strength around At some point the electric leader.
becomes sufficiently high that on the ground objects
to- the ground and works its way α streamer starts at