As in the cylindrical geometry case, the voltage
for α step function cu:rent injected into the exterior
the tube will build up according to the pattern shown
in Fig. 11.7. Its magnitude will be greater than the
resistance rise in the ratio by which the initial current
density along the end of the ellipse exceeds the steady
density. current state
will again be the sum of α resistive voltage rise V
2
and α magnetically induced voltage, this time along
will component resistive The path the EFDC.
identical to the resistive component of V1, the resis-
tance rise along the path For however, there CD. V2,
pro- voltage of component magnetic non-zero α be will
duced by the passage of α finite amount of magnetic
flux through the finite loop The magnetically EFDC.
induced component of voltage will be given by
,δ do em = • (Icirc) (11.38) =7
dtFig. dt
where is α proportionality constant relating the flux K
produced in the loop to the internal current. EFDC
In Eq. 11.32, however, it was shown that the internal
current was proportional to the integral of the inter-
unusual rather the to leads This rise. nal resistance
observation that the magnetically induced component
of voltage has, initially at least, the same waveshape
as the component of voltage produced by the flow
internal current through the resistance of the material.
The long term response of the magnetically in-
duced voltage will be different from the resistively gen-
crated component, since, as steady state conditions are
reached and the internal magnetic field reaches its final
value, its rate of change will decrease to zero.
Influence of physical shape: The amount of the mag-
netically induced voltage will depend upon the loca-__
tion of the conductor and upon the degree to which
the initial distribution of magnetic flux around the out-
side of the cylinder differs from the final distribution
of magnetic flux. Since the difference between the ini-
tial and the final flux patterns is greater for cylinders
of high eccentricity than it is for cylinders of low ec-
ceitricity, it follows that the flatter the cylinder, the
greater will be the influence of the magnetic compo-
nent.
11.4.5 Redistribution on α Rectangular
Cylinder
Some situations are best studied by numerical
means, an example being the rectangular coaxial trans-'
mission line of Fig. 11.22. It consists of α rectangular
outer conductor, assumed here as perfectly conducting
and only used to define the problem space, and α rect-
angular inner conductor made from α poorly conduct-
ing material. The driving source for the illustration

is taken to be α 1 axial electric field having the V/rn
of waveshape shown in Fig. 11.23. The current that ul-
timately results is given by the integral of the voltage
dc and the inductance of the circuit.
Conducting Prtecs"
Outer Condumr
.3σ μ
At Β
μ be *--.262
Τ. .. "' "" " ' " Α " .... . *
.12 C Α . xDi,
I
1
•
I I
mho/μ 220.4 aam .012
11.22 Redistribution in α rectangular cylinder.
0 1.
,%
>,
.J
of ¢
.€ ,'
Ω_ 0_..................
0 0.20 ns
Fig. 11.23 Axial electric field used to drive current.
The problem was solved with the two-dimensional
finite difference (2DFD) technique described earlier.
The solution was based on α cell size in the ζ and υ
directions of 0.004 μ and α time step of 9 ξ 10-12 sec.
By Eqs. 11.23 and 11.35 the pulse penetration time
would be 4.04 ns and the redistribution time constant
ns. would be 465
Fig. 11.24 shows the internal axial electric field at
points Α, and Δ. Skin effects force the current Β, C
on the center conductof to be highest at the comers
(Β) and lowest along the wider face (Α), and this is re-
flected in the axial electric field being highest at point
Β and lowest at point Α. After about one redistribu-
tion time constant, the currents and thus the internal
electric fields, are nearly equal.
321