and ξ 0 at the inner surface In Eq. 11.24 = δ ξ =
is injected. The curxnt at the surface where current
is given surface where current is injected density at the
evaluating Eq. 11.24 at ξ by δ. =
1 Ja= .2(φ--/ρ -..
/ I. \
(11.25)
is given at the other surface The current density
11.24 at ξ 0. = by evaluating Eq.
Z τ) I[1_2(eu/ρ_,τ/__/ lst/?,....J]
(11.26)
the α step function applied current In response to current density along the inner surface builds up as
shown on Fig. 11.7 and produces an incremental volt-
and of the current density age which is the product
The voltage along the resistivity of the surface. the
the incremental path AB is then given by integrating
the path is the Since the voltage along voltages. AB
it follows that will V Vi only component of voltage , 1
as shown on rise to the dc resistance following α path
Fig. 11.7.
Diffusion Response Characteristic 11.3.5
re- α called diffusion-type is curve response This
situations of types many of characteristic is and sponse
dis- α through on energy the transmission involving
transfer An example would be the tributed medium.
flux were suddenly ap- heat into α block if α heat of
be the plied to one face of the block. Another would
or energy through an transmission of electrical R/C
examples, with network. Fig. 11.8 shows ladder LIR
as the best illustrative 11.8(β) often being used Fig.
example of the phenomenon of skin effect,
1.0
o
0 Λ--- Λ-
0 Τ 7•
to response Diffusion-type 11.7 1ig.
function, α step

might be Two important observations Waveshape:
the shape of the response curve shown made about
initially The first is that the response on Fig. 11.7.
thus has α zero first deriva- changes only slowly and
has α exponential response, which tive, unlike α simple
The second is that the response finite first derivative.
approaches its final value much more slowly than does
response, In three time constants α simple exponential
has reached Eq. 11.23) the response (as defined by
99% point final value, but the rise to the 90% of its
an expo- time constants. In contrast, takes nearly 20
of its final value in three nential response reaches 95%
constants and reaches 99% in 4.65 time constants.
Eout Ein Rn (ν sections)
• ,,I-,..λ , .ν• φ'- (α
"
'
(ν sections) out I In Λ
ι ,pw
' "
(bF
networks displaying Fig. 11.8 Ladder
α diffusion-type response.
network (α) RIC
network (β) Λ/R
Eq. 11.22, it With respect to Influence of material:
is penetration time constant should be noted that the
directly proportional to the permeability of the ma-
of the to the resistivity terial, inversely proportional
to the square of the and directly proportional material
material. The relative permeability thickness of the
of structural materials used in aircraft is always very
can vary resistivity and thickness but unity, nearly
ranges. over wide
Fig. in plotted 11.21 is shown Eq. reference, For
11.9 as α function of material thickness and resistivity
of the material. The resistivities of some typical met-
were shown in §9.4.3. As an example, if we assume &Is
an aluminum alloy with α resistivity of 2.69 ξ 10-σ
skin thick- of copper) and α ohm-meters (twice that
ness of 1.016 mm (0.040 inches), the penetration time
function of current If α step 3.9 jus. be would constant
it would metal, such of outside the on established were
take 11.7 ps for the current density on the other side
to reach 90% of its final value. If the duration of the
ps, 11.7 to compared short were pulse current injected
voltage. full IR the reach never would response the
313