voltage is typically 50 - 200 kV per stage. The partic-
ular circuit gives α negative going output voltage for
positive charging voltage, but other configurations can
give positive output voltage,
v output
Σ
4
VVS
2
V
-4V
V
(α) (β)
generator. impulse circuit voltage 6.56 Marx Fig.
charging While (α)
erection After (β)
In practice, the switches are spark gaps, usually
spheres α few tens of centimeters diameter. Closure of
Σ connects C and C, in series, which places 2V on 1 2
C , which then sparks over placing C C1, C and in 2 3 2
series, placing 3V on Σ . The process, called erection,
4
cascades until all capacitors are in series. Stray capac-
itance from the various stages to ground is essential to
the initial development of the overvoltages required to
close switches other than the one initially fired. For
air insulated generators, erection takes place in about
ns, 10 10-α seconds.
The initial switch closure can be effected by phys-
ically moving the spheres together enough to allow
to breakdown by α dc overvoltage or by inducing Σ
1
breakdown by α pulse applied to α trigger electrode, α
trigatron spark gap. Α discussion of triggering mech-
anisms is beyond the scope of this volume, but can be
found in the literature. Reference [6.30] gives α good
introduction to the matter and also provides additional
references to the vast literature on pulsed power surge
technology.
Marx circuit voltage generators are usually rated
in terms of their open circuit voltage capability be-
cause they are used for testing insulation and other

high impedance devices. Operatio. into low imped-
α ance circuits is the exception, except in study of nu-
clear EMP effects, in which case compactness and
speed of erection becomes important. Such genera-
tors are generally insulated with oil or insulating gases,
such as sulfur hexafluoride, but the generators used
during tests for lightning effects are most commonly
air insulated.
Voltage generators are also rated in terms of their
stored energy,
2 = nCgV, joules or watt-seconds. (6.23) Ω
Α large machine for the electric power field might
have an open circuit voltage of about 5 MV (5 ξ 106
V) and α stored energy of 250 kilojoules. 10 MV is
about the highest voltage that has been used for air
insulated machines. Testing for aircraft applications
5 Α energy. stored or voltages such for calls seldom
MV machine can produce discharges through 10 or
more meters of air, but standardized test practices for
determining attachment points on aircraft seldom call
for gaps more than about 1 μ in length.
After erection, the surge generator can be treated
as. α single capacitor of magnitude C. = C=τ.SIN
corn- Α common V,, voltage to α charged as. NV.τ = 6 6
compo- waveshaping circuit, including plete generator
6.57. Fig. in shown is nents,
Disregarding the stray inductance of the circuit,
it produces open circuit voltages of double exponential
waveshape, as discussed in §1.5.2 and §9.10.1. Front
time is controlled by the charging time constant of the
series resistance R. and the waveshaping capacitor C1.
Tail time is determined by how long it takes and C,
to discharge through the resistors to ground, C1 R 9
and Rd. In practical circuits, Rd is frequently α re-
sistive voltage divider to measure the output voltage
and waveshape, though this can also be done by using
the waveshaping capacitor C1 as the high voltage arm
of α capacitive voltage divider. Α discussion of mea-
suring techniques is presented in [6.31]. Some circuits
dispense with either R, or Rd, but if α low resistance
must be used to prevent the tail time from being too
long, it is more efficient to use α high resistance voltage
divider (R,) and α low resistance for R,.
Approximate values of the front and tail times are
Tfroat - (6.24) 3RC1
Τ 97 R#(R, ( + Rj) -'fim
Τ (6.25) R, + RR J =.1[Re-+
In the high voltage power field the waveshape
most commonly produced has α front time of 1.2 σ is
160