.As
with the metal fabrics and foils, only one ply of with the woven wire fabrics or expanded metal foils
coated material should be used, and it must be the described earlier. Also, the wires do not affect CFC
outermost ply. strength and the interwoven wire ply is also α struc-
of metal tural ply. protection effectiveness The lightning
coated CFC is not as good as that of woven wire
meshes and expanded foils, allowing some damage to
the coated ply and one or two underlying plies.
Metal coated CFC is most often employed when
the possibility of corrosion is of special concern, be-
cause the metal used (nickel) is compatible with CFC.
Interwoven wires: CFC fabric is available with small
diameter metal wires woven along with the carbon
yarns in each direction [6.22, 6.23]. Typical arrange-
ments have from 3 to 9 wires per cm (8 to 24 wires per
inch) of cloth, and the wires have diameters of 0.08
and 0.12 nun (0.003 to 0.005 in.). The periodic ap-.
pearance of the wires at the fabric surface intensifies
the electric field at α multiplicity of locations, sufficient
to cause multiple punctures of paint layers and allow
lightning currents to enter the surface CFC at many
points, rnther than at α single spot, thus achieving arc ", ,
ε" AI
root dispersion.
;Τ= Μ Α•
Α typical CFC laminate containing α ply with in- Ω\β
terwoven wires is illustrated in Fig. 6.42. This figure
shows, in exaggerated form, the yarns in the top ply,
which is to be the exterior ply and exposed to lightning ρ
strikes. The electric field intensifies where the wires
lightning the multiple surface, causing at the appear Ar,• ω~ρ
attachment points.
wires. interwoven with laminate CFC 6.42 Fig. unpainted typical of α photograph is α 6.43 Fig.
CFC laminate, showing the interwoven wires.
Fig. 6.44 shows the behavioi of α simulated light-
ning leader attaching to α painted CFC laminate with
interwoven wires. Each of the current filaments at-
taches to α wire at the laminate surface, puncturing
the paint. An individual attachment point on α wire
is pictured in Fig. 6.45. The resin shown in this pho-
tograph has been punctured, exposing the wire, but
the wire was not damaged because the test current,
representative of α lightning leader, was small.
Full threat, return stroke currents enter α wider
area of surface, as illustrated in Fig. 6.46, and usually
vaporize the exposed portions of the wires, typically
over α surface area 10 - 20 cm (4 - 8 in) in diameter.
In most cases, this damage is limited to the outermost
_ ply, which contains the wires. The exposed portions of _
the wires are vaporized, giving the surface α speckled
appearance and often delaminating this ply from the
other plies over α similar area. Α four ply CFC skin
panel 1.3 mm (0.051 in.) thick following α Zone . 1Α
lightning test is shown in Fig. 6.47. The damage is
limited to the outermost CFC ply.
The weight penalty of the interwoven wires is very Fig. 6.43 Unpainted CFC laminate with
small, being only 5% (or so) of the penalty associated interwoven wires.
151