Splices and Joints CFC of Protection 6.5.2
light- points, at attachment damage to In addition
the places damage at cause can also currents ning
as to another, of CFC piece from one flow where they
with sub- or skin panels with adjoining interfaces at
basic methods spars. Two ribs and such as structure
are in use: composites of joining
frequently used at are Adhesives bonding: Adhesive
corn- or in alone either seams, joints and structural
nearly all Since mechanical fasteners. with bination
present they non-conductors, are electrical adhesives
to currents lightning flow and force to current α barrier
other CFC or where places and other fasteners flow in
If in contact. come the structure parts of conductive
made suffi- must be the adhesive exist, such paths no
transfer. current permit to conductive ciently
conductivity provide electrical Specific ways to
across adhesive joints are:
conductive electrically with of adhesive Doping 1.
particles.
the bond. into scrim of α conductive 2. Insertion
electri- some with doped Adhesives adhesives: Doped
available, commercially are particles conductive cally
aluminum and usually are particles conductive the but
electrical rathe, then thermal, is main purpose their
to adhesives such shown have [6.24] Tests conduction.
cm per 100 Α about to up conducting of capable be 2
 2 without current stroke ) of lightning in Α per (645
these adhesives However, strength. mechanical loss of
so and adhesives as non--conductive as strong are not
applications. structural primary found in not often are
also structure α CFC in particles of aluminum use The
possible corrosion. regarding concerns raises
by conductivity of Improvement scrim: Conductive
has bond the into scrim of α conductive insertion
scrim The applications. some in successful proved
al- joint, while of the side contact with each makes
Typical yarns. between to flow adhesive the lowing
most com- in Fig. 6.48. The are shown configurations
mon scrim is α single loosely woven layer of carbon
fiber cloth.
also fabrics have metal compatible Galvanically
densities current case anticipated In either used. been
at points arcing preclude to low enough be kept must
within parts CFC and scrim the between contact of
buildup pressure cause would Such arcing bond. the
disbonding. bond and possible within the
join- riveted of and method other The joints: Bolted
which in joints, with bolted is materials composite ing
are em- fasteners or other mechanical rivets, bolts,

fasteners Metal members two hold together. to ployed
been developed have materials no other since are used
strength. with sufficient
conduc- electrically joints offer or fastened Bolted
the fastener between area the contact but tive paths,
surface to the limited is usually composite and the
may be There and/or nut. head the fastener under
fastener, but of the to the shank the hole contact in
not occur may best and at loose contact will be α it
cur- relatively high in α instances. This results in all
collars, nuts or and heads the fastener at rent density
the composite level at which exceeding the sometimes
damage. without will carry
the fasteners between better contact obtain To
washers and beveled holes CFC, countersunk and the
shown tests have Even so, are used. heads and fastener
fas- around the place take significant arcing can that
point attachment the lightning especially when tener,
densi- fastener current and the fastener or at is near
ties are high. As discussed in Chapter 7, arcing at α
protrudes the fastener when concern α be can fastener
tank. α fuel into
it or separating arcing this of eliminating Methods
loss The 7. in Chapter described are vapors fuel from
has at fasteners to arcing due strength mechanical of
amount small α because concern as great been of not
nor the CFC damage significantly not will of arcing
riv- or fasteners of The number the fasteners. weaken
to sufficient usually is designs most employed in ets
currents. lightning 3 Zone most conduct
-, \ ,
K-.-- / \,, , •.,, 1./ -,. ,, -.
/--adhesive CFC
conductive CFC
(α) I scrim
conductive
(typ) joints
(β)
skrim. conductive with joint Adhesive 6.48 Fig.
concept Basic (α)
(β) Examples
153