tensity at its extremities, and especially between it and
other charged objects, such as the advancing leader. If
the aircraft is far away from the leader, its effect on the
field near the leader is negligible; however, if the air-
craft is within several tens or hundreds of meters from
the leader, the increased field intensity in between may
be sufficient to attract subsequent leader propagation
toward the aircraft. As this happens, the intervening
field will become even more intense, and the leader will
advance more directly toward the aircraft.
+ +
Fig. 3.12 Stepped leader approaching an aircraft,
The highest electric fields about the aircraft will
occur around extremities, where the equipotetitial lines
are compressed closest together, as shown in Fig. 3.13.
Typically, these are the nose fnd wing and empennage
tips, and also smaller protrusions, such as antennas or
pitot probes. When the leader advances to the point
where the field adjacent to an aircraft extreniity' is in-
creased to about 30 kV/cin (at sea level pressure),. the
air will ionize and electrical sparks will form at the
aircraft extremities, extending in the direction of the
oncoming leader,
ncnesw"Omw
τ su oWPtiNtwMs
________________________________ Σ
____is
Fig. 3.13 Compression of electric field
around an aircraft,
51

Several of these sparks, called streamers, usually
occur nearly simultaneously from several extremities
of the aircraft. These streamers will continue to prop-
agate outward as long as the field remains above about
5 to 7 kV/cm. One of these streamers, called the junc-
tion leader, will meet the nearest branch of the advanc-
ing leader and form α continuous spark from the cloud
charge center to the aircraft. Thus, when the aircraft
is close enough to influence the direction of the leader
propagation, it will very likely become attached to α
branch of the leader system.
3.4.2 Charge stored on Aircraft
When the aircraft is attached to the leader, some
charge (free electrons) will flow onto the aircraft, but
the amount of charge which can be taker. on is very
small compared to what is available from the lightning
flash. The chr-rg- will raise the aircraft to α high volt-
age and exc,'3ive charge will cause the electric field
around the aircraft to become so high that intense
corona streamers will form. These streamers will then
carry awa. the excess charge.
If additional charge flowb onto the aircraft, more
profuse stre".mirg will occur, and from extremities of
larger rs-ii of curvature. In fact, the maximum charge
which can be on the aircraft probably exceeds by up
τ.-- 100 times the streamer initiation value. However,
statistics on natural lightning characteristics show that
α typical leader contains about 1 to 10 coulombs (1-10
C), so, there is still no room for any significant portion
of this to accumulate on an aircraft. Thus, the aircraft
merely becomes an extension of the path being taken
by ti'ε leader on its way to an ultimate destination at
α reservoir of opposite polarity charge.
Streamers may propagate onward from two or
more extremities of the aircraft at the same time. If
so, the incoming leader will have split, and the two
(or more) branches will continue from the aircraft in-
dependently of each other until one or both of them
reach their destination. This process of attachment
and propagation onward from an aircraft is shown in
Fig. 3.14.
When the leader has reached its destination and
α continuous ionized channel between charge centers
hats been formed. recombination of electron and pos-
itive ions occurs back up the channel, and this forms
the high-amplitude return stroke current. This stroke
current and any subsequent stroke or continuing cur-
rent comlonents must flow through the aircraft, which
now part of the conducting path between charge cen-
ters, as shown in Fig. 3.15(α).
If another branch of the original leader reaches the
ground before the branch which has involved the air-
craft, the return stroke will follow the former, and '1