a practical matter, current generators are low imped- develop Component A currents, but charging voltage
ance devices and the current delivered to the load does need not be as high.
depend on the impedance of the load. Peak currnt is
one measure of the ability to cause damage aLd dura- Continuing currents: Continuing currents can be pro-
tion of current flow is another, but they do not corn- duced by a dc source, such as storage batteries con-
pletely define the matter. The fact that the current nected in series, ac transformers feeding rectifiers or
is oscillatory indicates that energy is being transferred rotating machines. Storage batteries are probably the
back and forth between the capacitance of the genera- most straightforward and economical method.
tor and the inductance of the entire circuit. A current
that oscillates for a long time, and thus might have a Complete current circuit: Direct effects testing fre-
large action integral, does not indicate that it is capa- quently requires that Component A, B and C currents
ble of causing extensive damage; it only indicates that be injected into a test piece. A typical circuit that al-
energy is not being lost from the surge generator. lows this to be done is shown in Fig. 6.66. Closure of
When the high current produces arcing in the ob- switch S allows the Component A generator to dis- 1
ject under test, the load resistance is not constant, but charge into the test piece, the frequency of oscillation
may increase with time as the current burns the surface being determined by the capacitance of the generator
of the object under test. When this happens, the in- and the circuit inductance and the decrement being
creased resistance causes more energy to be deposited controlled by The resulting voltage across gaps R .
1
in the test sample, which is to say, causes energy to and G causes them to spark over G and allows the 2 1 be transferred more efficientiy from the generator into Component B and C generators to discharge into the
the test sample. The fact that energy has been ex- test piece. Lb and Rb are adjusted so that the Com-
tracted from the generator means that the degree of ponent B current is unidirectional and of the proper
oscillation of the test current is reduced. An anoma- amplitude and duration. L, and R, adjust the am-
lous situation then arises, because the action integral plitude of the continuing current, Component C, and
of the current, which supposedly measures the damage prevent the Component A and B generators from dis-
producing ability of the current, is reduced because the charging into the low impedance storage battery. The
current has produced damage to the object under test. duration of the Component C current can be adjusted
Intermediate currents: Intermediate currents, Corn- by opening switch closing S , switch or by $3 blow-
2
ponent B of [6.341 can also be produced by capaci- ing of fuse F. Currents are measured by pulse current
and resistive shunts, T , R and are larger than those used to transformers tor banks. Capacitances R . 1 2 3
Sc
R
Loo
7Component
T, C
FiC . 0.0n Complete curr,,R generator.
10
16GO