on the tests were based regarding TCL [18.0, 18.7]
intended to simulate the premise that the test was
fects of α given amount of magnetic flux and not to
circulate α specified current through the cable actually
under test or to develop α specified voltage at the ter-
minals of the device under test. The current through
the actual cable under test, or the actual voltages de-
veloped at the terminal of the EUT, would then
depending on how much the different by an amount
actual impedance of the interconnecting cable differed
the dummy cable. from that of
18.37, Fig. proposed, procedure calibration The
transformer onto α dummy was to place the injection
and length, and hence specified cable of specified size
level of the then to adjust the power impedance, and
surge generator until the desired short circuit current
was obtained. The dummy cable was then open cir-
cuited and α check made to see that the desired open
circuit voltage could be developed.
ALUMINUM TRNSFORMER
0.4 cm Td,
SURGE
, 1RG-K)Α/U
ε
Avoltage 3Μ
CURRENT
VIEWING
TRANSFORMER
CODCTOR
UNDER TEST
Fig. 18.37 Calibration on α dummy circuit.
the then to be placed on transformer was The
and current of the magnitudes test. The under cable
be recorded, but cable were to induced on the voltage
not to was generator of the surge level the power
changed from that determined during the calibration.
The practice that has come to be most common
is α variant of the originally suggested practice. Open
circuit voltage is measured on α single turn winding
threaded through the core, often made α permanent
cur- Short circuit transformer. injection part of the
length threaded is measured on α wire of minimum rent
#14 AWG di- generally of # 10 to through the core,
anmeter.
"Yellow book" approach No. 1: This approach, not
specifically labeled as No. 1 in [18.8], involves calibrat-
ing the transformer with the actual cable that would
be used during the test, or α close replica thereof. The

objective depends on the procedure actual calibration
of the test. ef-
The basic approach is to develop the specified
voltage amplitude and waveshape on α cable. The
generator is adjusted to deliver that voltage on the
cable, as measured by α voltage probe connected to
one of the cable wires open at one end and grounded
be at the other end. The cable is then shorted and the
current noted to verify generator source short circuit
impedance. The cable is then connected to the EUT
tests applied. number of and the appropriate
low by virtue generally cable, impedance α low For
involve at each end, tests of an overall shield grounded
circuit current. The out- delivering α specified short
adjusted to deliver that the surge generator is put of
current, as measured by α measuring current trans-
former placed over the shorted cable. The appropriate
number of pulses are then applied to the system.
"Yellow book" approach No. 2: This approach, not
specifically labeled as No. 2 in [18.8], is applicable if
ve- the cable under test does not duplicate the actual
hice cable. The recommended procedure is as follows.
1. Clamp the injection transformer over the open cir-
cuited test cable.
2. Adjust the generator until the desired open circuit
Σ~, is obtained. Record the setting, of the
generator.
then readily open circuited, cannot be the cable If
the open circuit voltage can be measured on α
single turn measuring loop on the injection trans-
former.
the generator until the and adjust the cable 3. Short
Record culrrent is obtained. short circuit desired
of the generator. Si the setting, be
4. Connect the cable to the EUT.
Reduce the power level of the 5. generator to zero.
of the generator power level adjust the 6. If < Si, Σ.
obtained or the either the desired current is until
number reaches Apply the appropriate setting Σ,.
of pulses.
7. If adjust the power level of the generator Σ, Si <Σ
until either the desired circuit voltage is obtained
or the setting reaches Apply the appropriate Si.
number of pulses.
485