are involved factors that Lead several The of MOVs: of Rating overshoot of alleged Most instances effects:
us- be illustrated MOV device will α rating of in the to lead inductance due are usually protectors MOV
series V130LA Electric the General an example ing as ma- the varistor to really intrinsic are not and effects
in Tables are shown of which characteristics device, surge pro- or any other MOVs, When applying terial.
available from are devices Similar 17.2 [17.1]. 17.1 and any short to keep should be taken device, care tective
be taken not should illustration and the other vendors currents changing or rapidly high which through leads
device. Ap- of brand of any particular endorsement an the inductance developed across Voltage might flow.
adds to the voltage developed across the plication of MOVs should be based on manufacturers of such leads
varistor material. As an example, Fig. 17.19 shows catalog data.
two installations of MOV devices such as might be
size: used on α 115 VAC power circuit, one using the min- Device The most common packaging configura-
tion for MOV devices is α disk with wire leads. The imum practical lead length and one with leads about
15 cm (6 in) long, along with the voltages developed column listing the device size refers to the diameter of
by half sinusoidal current waves. For α current wave the disk. Thickness depends on the voltage rating of
with α 10 ps front time the voltage is about the same the device and will be given in outline drawings, but
with the two lead lengths, but for α current with α 0.5 not in tables of specifications. Larger diameter disks
ps front the voltage was nearly double with the longer have greater current carrying capability than smaller
leads. disks.
Excessive lead length is α problem irrespective of
the type of protector. Leads should always be kept as
short as possible and, wherever practical, surge ar-
three terminal devices. be treated as resters should
Fig. 17.20 shows examples of good and bad practice. AREA 22 0 CMZ
2 PROBE VOLTAGE cm 0.5 AREAa
FRCM COPPER Τ]BE OUTPUT LEAD
~PAT SURROUN ING GENERATOR TRANSIENT 11 PROBE CURRENT VOLTAGE
VARISTOR CURRENT
PATH
.VARISI"OR
(α) Minimal loop area Excessive loop area (β)
-- •----1160 V
=22cm 2 Α
(χ~ι •" (δ)
Fig. 17.19 Lead effects [17.11.
(α) Short leads it) Current rise of 8 ps
(β) Long leads (δ) Current rise of .is 0.5
446