currents. Therefore, test- designed to conduct electric
lightning direct effects used to evaluate ing must be
and verify protection design of such complex struc-
tures.
Similarity: Verification of direct effects protection by
similarity means that current-carrying structures and
joints must be shown to have equal or greater cross-
sectional areas and interface surface areas than the
designs to which they are similar, and that other de-
sign features are also sufficiently similar so as not
respond differently to other lightning effects such as
shock waves and magnetic forces.
'Demonstration of similarity includes comparisons
of detailed design drawings, parts lists and installation
details, combined with such analyses as are necessary
to show that dissimilarities do not result in unforeseen
hazards.
verified by simi- that can be of designs Examples
larity are:
 Skins. -
Hinges and bearings,
 Landing gear. -
 Flight control surfaces. -
Windshields.
Joints, interfaces and couplings,
Test: Many subsystems or components will be veri-
fled by test. The environment will be determined by its
physical location on the system and the lightning strike
zones that are applicable. More than one zone may
apply, that is, all components must conduct the light-
ning current away from the attachment point in addi-
tion to withstanding the thermal, blast and magnetic
force effects of direct lightning attachment. Thus all
subsystems or components must withstand the Zone
3 environment in addition to the other zone require-
ments.
Lightning direct effects are usually limited to the
near vicinity of the attachment point. In most struc-
tures, the current will diffuse radially away from the
attachment point and as the current density decreases,
the physical damage also decreases. This indicates
that the specimen size for test can be small compared
to the size of the total structure or component.
verification direct effects for conducting Methods
tests are described in Chapter 6.
Verification indirect effects of protection: Indi-
rect effects protection designs are usually verified by
demonstrating that the induced transients appearing

I (LRU) harness interfaces at the Line Replacable Unit
and that the than the established TCL'σ, are less
equipment can tolerate the ETDL'σ at their interfaces.
by test, be accomplished Verification can again
verified systems to previously analysis or similarity
and equipment, or by combination of these methods.
Further discussion of these methods is presented in
Chapters 8 through 18. Appropriate margins will be
required to account for uncertainties.
Certification plans 5.7 to
Experience has shown, particularly on aircraft
employing major amounts of advanced composites or
full authority electronic control systems that prepara-
tion and the submittal of α certification plan early in
the program is desirable. FAA concurrence with this
certification plan should also be obtained. This plan is
because and the FAA the applicant to both beneficial
resolution of the defines an acceptable it identifies and
critical issues early in the certification process. As the
process proceeds, analysis or test results may warrant
modifications in protection design and/or verification
methods. As necessary, when significant changes oc-
cur, the plan should be updated. The plan should
include the following items:
Description of the system: There should be α de-
scription of the system, covering such things as its
installation configuration, any unusual or unique fea- tures, the operational aspects being addressed, zone
locations, lightning environment, protection design
level(σ) and approaches.
Description of the protection: There should be α de-
scription of the method of protection and the methods
to be used to verify the effectiveness of the protection.
Typically, the verification method includes α combina-
tion of analytical procedures and tests. If analytical
procedures are used, the methodology for verification
of these procedures should be described.
Pass/Fall Criteria: The pass/fail criteria should
be identified and will apply to testing and analysis
of lightning protection of fuel systems and electri-
cal/electronic equipment and systems. The pass/fail
criteria for an electronic system, for example, might
include the following:
level (ETDL). design transient The equipment Α.
Β. The transient control level (TCL).
4
C. The margin between ETDL and TCL.
Δ. Interference with analog or digital data due tc the
112