Punctures of these composites can be prevented
by installing conductors to intereept the lightning
flashes and divert them to the surrounding metallic corona streamers
structure. Design of such conductors requires some drawn from internal
objects this and puncture of mechanism the of understanding
is reviewed in the following section.
Mechanism of 6.3.2 Damage
Lightning produces damage to a non-conducting
skin by two different mechanisms; by puncture or by
" the strength are controlled by fiashover. Both surface
of the local electric field.
radome
Electric The fields, basic electrical breakdown pro- radar
(a)
cess was reviewed in Chapter 1 and in Chapter 3 the
mechanism of attachment to an aircraft was reviewed.
those sections, high electric fields result Incident electric field As noted in
in the formation of corona and streamers which prop-
agate outward from the aircraft. Fig. 6.24 shows a
sketch of the process. Whether the streamers from -ndn
longitudi elec- changing rapidly the by induced are aircraft the
tric field of an approaching lightning leader or whether
they grow in response to a quasi--static electric field is Erda
.- radil de- do leaders the that is point the academic; rather
velop.
The surface conductivity of the composite, 1012 to
1014 ohms per square for materials used in fairir.gs and
10 ohms per square for materials used in radomes, is
sufficient to yield relaxation times of 10-100 millisec- on charge takes it how long of measure a is time Relaxation onds.
electrical charge to move off a surface. inner surface
What this means is that in response to a slowly
changing external electric field, charges will migrate
(b) from neighboring conductive structures on to the non-
conductive surface. These charges reduce the electric
field intensity within and underneath the surface.
by an charges induced Streamers and Fig. 6.24 how- changes rapidly, electric field If the external
field. incident electric an approaching by is produced does if it as it ever,
Internal and external streamers across the sur- (a) leader, charge cannot move lightning
fields produced (b) Charges and electric fast enough to prevent face of the composite material
electric fields from penetrating to the regions covered by internal streamers
by the dielectric skin. If the internal electric field be-
of the skin is higher form on Because the dielectric constant comes high enough, electrical streamers will
than that of the air, the electric field in the compos- the internal metallic objects and will propagate out-
ward and come into contact with the internal surface ite skin material will be lower than the electric field
of the skin. There they will deposit electric charge, in the air. What happens next involves some complex
as shown in Fig. 6.24. A crude analogy is that the interactions between the development of the internal
streamers spread electric charge around in the same and external streamers and the dielectric strength of
way that a water hose would spread water around on the materials involved.
the internal surface.
External The electric charge will produce an electric field, flashover: One possibility is that external
Fig. 6.24(b), having one component directed tangen- streamers from adjacent metal structure may develop
tially along the inner surface and one component di- fast enough to suppress the internal streamers. A
rected radially through the skin and out to the air. streamer develops from a metal surface when the elec-
137