at occur strikes Pxperience, Most altitudes: lower
air- the when occur most lightning strikes that shows
(20 krm ' aud ft) (5000 kmn 1.5 between is flying rraft
also,. meanp 3. This Chapter in as discussed ft), 000
cruilse, thani less sometimes is velocity aircraft that the
and right- pipper the in strikes that •esult, the with
•,are 6, proba6ι1ε less '5. of Figs. regions hand
altitudes: svere Most at lower occur .trikes Most
dan- severe in4licted have tha•τ not 'all, though strikes,
km of 6 at altitudes occurred also have aircraft to age
below at altitudes been have these many of and less, or
toss or damage, severe of cases of the In most km. 3
km or below 3 at occugrxed strikc the aircraft of the
with strokesassociated return the are course, of These,
dam- sevre cases, In α few environment. lA Zone the
10,'and of between altitudes 'at &uise has occurred age
km. 12
return strokes seveie the most logical that It is
re-, strokes these earth because to the closest occur
Ar aircraft system. the leader discharge of from sult
expe- α leader thus of lower "trunk" to the attached
does than flow charge leader of the more riences
center, cloud charge to the α leader closer aircraft in
the is below charge of the leader most which case in
aircraft.
cloud-to- be altitudes may not at high Strikes
based on leader is analysis foregoing ground: The
It ground the and cloud α between propagation
cruise at strikes occurring the many of that probable
but ground, the involve do not 6 km above altitudes
centers charge level upper between propagate instead
for- the about Less is known clouds. the among in or
probable it is but flashes, intracloud of these mation
than times are shorter propagation leader their that
at high originatin- flashes those of cloud-to--ground
prob- the to reduce tends this factor Again, altitudes.
5.10, Fig. of the upper region in occurrences of ability
origi- possibility. Flashes this not eliminate does but
occasion- have cloud of the reaches the upper in nating
to ground, way the all propagate to been observed ally
forego- the With location: zone for Methodology
can be procedures following the in mind, ing factors
α specific on zones lightning strike the to locate used
aircraft.
nose, wing as the such extremities aircraft 1. All
na- cone, wing-mounted tips, tail and empennage
should projections significant other and celles
because zone strike direct α within considered
points, attachment leader probable initial they are
leading or extremities forward are that Those
and ex- Zone in be considered should edges IA,

Zone in be ýhould edges trailing are that tremitfes
definitions. zone the with in'α*cordautce 1Β,
sale of tests iboratory and, experience In-flight
sur- flat 'that large, shown aircrafthave min6odaisf
leader initial receive also can aircraft of soine faces
'bottom and top the are 'Examp.les -attachments.
the transport aircraft and of' wide-body surfaces
These aircraft wing, high large, of surfaces upper
prop- α from to result likely more are attachments
from than aircraft the leader approaching agating
to akin are they strike, and aircraft triggered an
now attach to known are that strikes the lightning
buildings. of large roofs the flat to and then, 0,
of Zone extension the rearward case, such α In
attach- surface" "flat these from begin would IA
or leading an extremity from rather than ments,
to flat strikes 1Α possibility of Zone The edge.
of (or inboard aft distance α significant surfaces
only been acknowledged extremity has an from)
of the compression by is explained and recently
geometry. aircraft striking distance with leader an
surfaces in- susceptible of identifying way One
sphere surface an imaginary the over eludes rolling
air- the over distance the striking is radius ω..hose
in fully more is described procedure The craft.
[5.22].
be- altitudes at time some at fly aircraft Since all 2. is
ft), ex- rearward the minimum (20 000 6 km low
should aircraft on α particular zones IA of tension
The 5.7. or Eq. 5.10 from Fig. determined be
for operates aircraft the at which velocity highest
should this altitude time within appreciable an
km,, then 6 never reaches aircraft If the be used.
be used instead. should altitude cruise its normal
1.5 ξ 105 as should be taken velocity leader The
μ/σ.
procedure above the aircraft, today'σ of most For
of 1Α Zone of extension α rearward in result will
 20 ft). (13 μ 6 4 - -
higher at extensively that cruise aircraft For some 3.
zone of extension α further and speeds altitudes
proba- if the especially appropriate, be may 1Α
un- to an strike to α due hazard α flight bility of
probability Since the is high. surface protected
is lower, altitudes the higher strokes at severe of
not oth- may Zone of extension further such be lA
flight if the words, other In necessary. be erwise
it should high, is surface of the criticality safety
accord- and protected IA in Zone as considered be
in accordance designed may be not, it ingly. If
108