Calculation of shield performance: Vance [15.6] gives
equations relating resistance and transfer inductance
to the construction of the shield. Fig. 15.17 shows
example of how transfer inductance depends on weave
angle. In the frequency domain the transfer imped-
ance is generally dominated by the resistance below
about 1 MHz and by the transfer inductance at higher
frequencies. The reference to mutual capacitance will
be discussed shortly under electric field shielding.
E
N .o
δ maktbaiuae 6.2mi
C-*12
2 ι 2 FO- '1-
- - -Fig.
I~ C24 -
MI, InI4Im)
1Α 1
01
20 40 10 30 in so 70 σ0
ANGLO.I δ~pU WEAYS
Fig. 15.17 Mutual inductance and mutual capacitance
vs weave angle [15.3].
Flexibility weave vs. angle: Shielding effectiveness
can be improved by making the shield more dense,
Small shield. the of flexibility the reduces that but
diameter shields can be made with α small weave angle,
but on large diameter cables the weave angle must
large to maintain flexibility.
layers construe- An alternative of braid: Overlapping
tion involves two overlapping layers of braid, Fig.
layers of braid will reduce the 15.18. Using two similar
double the weight of two (and by α factor resistance
of the shield), but can reduce the transfer inductance
by α much greater factor, frequently to levels below
0.1 nH/μ. Resistance can be calculated, but transfer
inductance is best measured.
Purpolsing: Sometimes cables exhibit α phenomenon,
shown in Figs. 15.19(α) and (β), in which α change in
external noise current induces an internal electric field
of the opposite polarity. This is due to α phenomenon

called porpoising. It occurs because braid wires loop
back and forth between the inner and outer surfaces
one of the shield, carrying current to the inner surface by
conduction rather than by diffusion. As shown in Fig.
15.19(χ), wires carring axial current on the inside sur-
face of the shield produce α magnetic field oriented
oppositely to that which leaks in through holes. Mea-
surements in the frequency domain would not show
the effect unless they also included α measurement of
phase as well as of magnitude. As α practical matter,
porpoising is α phenomenon likely to be found only on
poorly shielded cables.
braid layer 1
islation
Sconductor
15.18 Doubly shielded cable.
tNMM OUC Cý &AGWWO ? MAOO FRII lON F Ω4136 I
MW I 0411MAL
,
0Α*,
be (β)
giving Magnetic coupling 15.19 Fig. effect of
α negative coupling inductance.
(α) Current and field polarities
(β) Direction of field
(χ) Current and field waveshpaes
lectric fGld leakage: Another source of coupling is
via caparStive leakage through the holes in the shield,
as shown in Fig. 15.20. the If shielded cable is sub-
jected to an external and changing electric field, dielec-
tric flux will pass through the holes in the cable from
the external source and onto the signal conductor.
The flow of these dielectric, or displacement. currents
406