distribution time constants in a CFC aircraft are much
faster than in a metal aircraft. The phenomena of
distribution is discussed further in Cha.ter 11.
8.5.3 Capacitively Generated Currents
The third type of coupling, Fig. 8.10, involves
electric fields passing directly through apertures, such
as windows or canopies, to the interior of the aircraft.
The displacement current forced through a grounded
object, Fig. 8.10(c) is
 (8.4) A 2 x LE 8.85 ,= 10-
where A is the area available to intercept displacement
current E is the intensity of the electric field. If the
current flows through an impedance it will, of course,
produce an electrically induced voltage. Capacitively
induced voltages and currents, which are discussed
§9.8.3, are proportional to the rate of electric of change
field, frequently referred to as E or E dot.
(a) tthat E~t
.
Zino Eim
Et E~zdecisions
(b)
BMesuem
• , ,proaches
(c)
Fig. 8.10 Aperture-type electric field coupling.
(a) Extermal field pattens
(b) Internal field patterns
(c) Induced current

In metal aircraft, electric field coupling is entirely
re- through apertures, since virtually any thickness of
metal provides extremely good shielding against elec-
tric fields. With composite aircraft this may or may
not be the case.
8.6 Approaches to Determining the
Response of Circuits
There are two basic methods of conducting a flow-
down analysis, that is, determining how much voltage
and current might be induced on aircraft wiring by
measurement. and analysis lightning; numerical
Numerical analysis: Since an aircraft is a complex
structure it is difficult to determine by analytical
means the voltages and currents that might be in-
duced on aircraft wiring by lightning. Some techniques
are available for such analyses and they are reviewed
in in Chapters 10, 11 and 12. Most of them are based
on techniques derived from the field, and in NEMP
fact most of the advanced numerical and mathemati-
cal treatments of lightning interactions have their ori-
gins in the analytical studies funded by efforts. NEMP
All of them require a considerable investment in com-
puter resources and training of personnel. They are
also limited in the degree to which they can predict 0
the voltages and curients of actual aircraft wiring, as
opposed to idealized and oversimplified geometries.
Numerical analysis, though, has the prime virtue
one can predict the general responses of an air-
craft that has yet to be built. Also, using simplified
and idealized geometries, one can predict the order of
magnitude of voltage and current on circuits too com-
plex to analyze precisely. Frequently, an order of mag-
nitude estimate of the voltages and current induced by
lightning is enough to enable one to make intelligent
regarding protective measures, In particular
this is true if the primary purpose of the analysis is to
give guidance for as to the levels at which to conduct
laboratory proof tests.
The other way of analysing the re- nts:
sponse of an aircraft to lightning is to inject current
into the aircraft and actually measure the resulting
voltages and currents on wiring. Three basic ap.
to such tests are as follows.
1. Inject continuous wave alternating currents into
the aircraft and make frequency domain mea-
surements of the response, relating the measured
response to the response to lightning through
Fourier analysts techniques.
2. Inject high level (full threat level) pulse currents
into the aircraft and measure the response in the
2,0