the circuits distributed With circuits: Distributed
on effect their and fields electromagnetic the of role
voltage the since important very is leads measuring the
leads. measuring the by taken path the on depend does
al- an where 9.5 example, consider Fig. an As
cylin- metal α through is flowing current ternating
along drop voltage the measure to attempt der. In an
connected four volt- has experimenter an cylinder the
meters respond four that all has observed and meters,
me- the from different respond also They differently.
to used supply power the of voltage the measuring ter
current. the circulate
note"
Σ04
Σ#4
path. of function α as Voltage Fig. 9.5
are or voltage correct the records meter Which
them of all is that answer The correct? of them any
"voltage no unique is there since respond correctly
re- meters the of each pipe; with the associated drop"
elec- the situation each for because differently sponds
The path. different α evaluated around is field tric
magnetic to the voltmeters respond primarily external
to connecting leads The cylinder. the surrounding field
leads the do than flux magnetic more meter 1 intercept
is more there consequently 2 and to meter connecting
2. meter than 1 meter of leads the in induced voltage
α to exposed loop α in of voltage induced The amount
§9.7.4. in is discussed field magnetic
the with flush run which 3, meter for leads The
α As flux. magnetic no intercept cylinder the of surface
produced voltage the to only 3 responds meter result,
the of resistance the through flowing the current by
cylinder.
can there Since yet. differently responds 4 Meter
§9.7.2) (see cylinder the within field magnetic no be
in the magnetically voltage induced no can be there
voltage to the respond though, does, The meter leads. .
resistance the through of current flow the by produced
voltage α different still indicates it but cylinder, the of
to 3 responds meter that is reason 3. The meter from
surface outer on the flowing current of the density the
of density the to responds 4 meter while cylinder the of
251

cylinder. the of surface inner the on flowing current the
§9.6.4. in further discussed as different, are two The
elec- of integral line the as voltage concept of The
great impor- of is path α particular around field tric
can elements circuit on voltage of Anomalies tance.
path the to attention careful by generally be explained
routed. are wires connecting which along
Impedances External vs Internal 9.6.4
to applied voltage shows which 9.6 Fig. Consider
path return α conductor, α of composed circuits series
V voltage applied The two. the between gap and the
electric the all of integral line the to must be eaual
and of sum the is, that Ec, Er loop, the around fields
of field electric surface the as defined is Ec where E.
re- the of field surface electric the conductor, the Er
or gap the of field electric the is and path turn E.
path. return the and conductor the between space
conductor
E__ E path return (α) __
•,, Τ - AeE
conductor
Er ρ:τ
(β.. ......
return -
path
field. of electric Components Fig. 9.6
plane ground α over Conductor (α)
conductors Coaxial (β)
external the as described best is E, In Fig. 9.6(α)
re- the since return external with field electric surface
Fig. 9.6(β) In conductor. the to external is turn path
field electric surface internal the as described is best E,
return. internal with
the to related be can fields various electric The
9.7 Fig. On impedances. through current conductor
conductor, the of impedance internal the depicted are
and the ex- the return path of impedance internal the
the impedance or conductor, the of impedance ternal
path. return the conductor and between gap the of
return and conductor the of impedances internal The
the of sizes the and materials the of properties are path
be sep- domain, frequency the can, in and conductors