sarface of the test object must, of necessity, move surfaces. Most of these coatings were electrically insu-
faster than the arc. Air speed is thus not α perfect lating and thus required that the arc be further length-
indicator of how fast the arc moves. In addition, there ened to allow the greater voltage buildup necessary to
will be cooling of the arc by the faster moving air. pumcture the insulation and form the next aittachment
This, perhaps, allows the arc voltage to rise at α faster point. Dwell times of up to 20 ms were recorded on
rate than would occur normally, and so might create painted surfaces. Times undoubtedly depended on the
α new attachment point sooner than had cooling not type and thickness of the paint, but precise records of
occurred. Also, the behavior of the upper terminus of those conditions were not kept as their importance had
the arc as it moves along the electrode probably has not yet been recognized.
some effect on the behavior of its lower terminus at More recent dwell time data has been obtained
the test object. from the inflight experience of -the NASA F-106Β air-
Α more realistic simulation would undoubtedly re- craft [7.43]. This plane was instrumented as part of
sult if the test object, like an aircraft in flight, could the NASA-Langley Research Center Storm Hazards
be moved through α stationary arc. Plumer [7.41] at- Program to study lightning parameters and effects on
tempted this by moving α wing tip fuel tank beneath aircraft. Spacings between burn marks on surfaces of
α high-voltage electrode at α velocity of 15.5 μ/σ (35 the aircraft showed that dwell times were less than 2
mph), the fastest speed that could safely maintained ms for unpainted skins and between 1 and 6 ms across
in the test area. Α flash was triggered when the ap- the painted aluminum fuselage and wing surfaces. The
proaching tank, carried atop α truck, sufficiently closed dwell times were determined from the spacings be-
the airgap between the electrode and the ground. tween burn marks and the aircraft velocity, 182 μ/α
Limitations of this technique were the low velocity (409 mph), during the thunderstorm penetrations.
and the low (4 ampere) test current amplitude. Sub- Α tabulation of laboratory and in-flight strike
sequent in-flight lightning strikes to two fuel tanks of data is shown in Table 7.4 for several surfaces corn-
this type have confirmed the occurrence of the pre- monly found in swept flash zones (Zone 2Α).
dicted attachment points and breakdown paths. The FAA User'σ Manual [7.26) for the updated
Despite the lower velocity and lower current am- [7.27], recognizes that Advisory Circular AC-20-53Α
surfaces and paints found on aircraft dwelled for the coati.ngs arcs in Plumer'σ tests also plitude, the
*times of between 1 and 4 ms on unpainted aluminum can affect dwell times. It recommends that proposed
surfaces, results closely parallel to those of the wind paints and finishes be compared with data bases such
tunnel work. These parallel conclusions seem to indi- as those presented here to establish anticipated dwell
avail- cate that the arcs in the wind tunnel tests may not times. New coatings for which little experience is
have moved as fast as the wind itself, and, also, that able should be tested to establish dwell times and melt-
current amplitude has relatively little to do with dwell through or hot spot ignition thresholds. Guidance for
time. performing such tests is given in §4.2 of [7.281.
been estab- dwell times have the expected Once and Newman Stahmann, coatings: Robb, Effects of
(7.42] the amplitude necessary to determine it is then to de- lished, technique the wind tunnel have utilized
these periods. during of the current or coated painted times on various arc dwell termine
7.4 Table
Lightning Dwell Times on Typical
Aircraft Surfaces in Zone 2Α
Aircraft Velocities
μ/σ 103 μ/σ 58 Type 15.5 μ/σ Surface
mph) mph) mph) (35 (130 (230
ma 1.0 2.0 ms 4 ms to I and Aluminum
titanium unpainted
ms 2.6 4.8 ms anodized Aluminum
ms up to 10 to 20 mn up painted Aluminum
187