light- some to prevent inductance much have too ally ascertained in an outlet vent fuel of the 6. Location
arcing and insulation down from breaking current ning degree of pro- highest the will provide area 3 Zone
and tank pipe the between the interface at sparking Α or above. described the methods of any of tection
wall. α over preferred is highly outlet or flush recessed
with bonding avoid problems way to The best latter could the because tube outlet, protruding
to make instead but on them, to rely is not jumpers which streamnering or source of corona α become
carry the cur- to the one path be physical shortest the aircraft when the an attachment in might result
by be done may This 7.11. in Fig. shown rent, as field. electric strong in α is flying
metal uncoated of clean, surfaces the faying making
via contact providing bare metal-to-metal by and/or be- other purposes for are utilized arresters Flame
exposed interfaces by covering and bolts, or the rivets that hazard One potential protection. lightning sides
arc contain sealant to tank fuel resilient with α tough arcing at is arresters flame of installation from results
of fuel the use for Guidelines may occur. that products of the side at either couplings vent tube flexible the
§7.10.3. and in §7.6.3 found are tank sealant ar- as the tube, in currents lightning due to arrester,
α partic- of adequacy the about doubt is If there share would they where are often in locations resters
with tested should be bond the bond, ular electrical with surround- current lighting of amounts substantial
sparking that assure to simulated lightning currents designs installation 1roposed Thus, ing structure.
and currents test The interface. at the occur not does sources, of ignition as free test by be verified should
in [7.26 those recommended be should practices test §7.14.3. in are described test methods Suitable
in zone strike lightning particular the for and 7.28]
Pipes Drain and Fuel Jettison 7.4 located. pipe is drain or jettison the which
or dumping for exist provisions aircraft, some On
ex- α pipe . often through overboard, fuel jettisoning
as shown tank, fuel α from airstream into the tending
oper- electrically and closed normally Α 7.10. in Fig.
unlikely is it that so pipe, the in installed is valve ated
α flame could travel past this valve into the fuel tank. • ,eand flme
struck fuel, were with is filled which pipe. Even if the ms.mWo
φ that uilikelv is it fuel, jettisoning while ak E lightning by
IL tank. the pipe into the through propagate could flames
design, by link I prevented not if hazard, likely more Α
cross- currents lightning by arcs caused electrical is
fue the pipe and the bond between electrical ing α poor δ λ, tube Jetion ι bond .
here euframbi fit- bulkhead through fasteners at or wall, tank fuel
frequently coated with electri- is since the wall tings, -4
finishes, or paints resistant corrosion insulating, cally lb
joints such across installed jumpers bonding Electrical
Fig. Bonding at α fuel jettison pipe. 7.10 may be adequate to equalize static charge differentials
these usu- but systems, fuel in occur sometimes which
tuel metal bare
at Metametcontact bon ~interfaces vi strap
in(unatini
1link
(β) (cr) (α?)dump "α
pipe
tanks. fuel to pipes dump fuel of Bonding 7.11 Fig.
strap (α) Bond
contact Metal-metal (β)
link Insulating (χ)
0
181