It is α characteristic of an arc channel discharge that α few millimeters for the leader and which expands
the current density remains fairly constant. if the cur- to α few centimeters during the passage of the return
rent through the arc is increased, the arc channel ex- stroke. The inductance of this return stroke is deter-
pands in diameter. The channel cannot expand instan- mined by the diameter of the highly conductive central
taneously however, since energy must be put into the core, and the capacitance by the diameter of the col-
channel to cause it to heat up sufficiently to force it umn of electrical charge. The lightning stroke may
to expand. Accordingly, if the current through the arc then be modeled as shown in Fig. 2.15(β), in which α
channel is increased suddenly by α large magnitude, highly conductive central conductor is fastened onto α
as in Fig. 2.14(α), the longitudinal voltage gradient of series of projecting spines, much like the backbone of
the channel must suddenly increase, α fish.
the injected into is which energy rate at Since the - -- -
channel is the product of the current and the longitu- - - -
dinal voltage gradient, the increased longitudinal volt- .. ... - - -
age gradient may be taken as the mechanism forcing . Z.. ..
the arc channel to get hot enough to expand to the _ -- -
diameter required to carry the high currents.
It is not known what the maximum longitudinal (α)
voltage gradient would be in α lightning channel, but
it is known from studies of arcs in laboratories that the
gradient will fall to values on the order of 100 kV/μ in / - σ
α fraction of α microsecond. Presumably in α few mi- I 1 α /
AI. croseconds, the channel diameter will have expanded ,ρ.
C gradient voltage the longitudinal value, and to its final I
will have decayed back toward values on the order of 5 5- - ,-,- - ,--- - -, '-- '
to 10 kV/μ. The longitudinal resistance, then, would (β)
fall from values on the order of 40 Q/μ to values on
the order of α small fraction of an ohm per meter, in Fig. 2.15 Effect of corona cloud on velocity
times on the order of α few microseconds. of propagation.
α surrounding charge Distributed (α) however, longitudinal resistance, of collapse This
is far from instantaneous. The initial resistance of the highly conductive central core.
leader is high enough to retard the development of the (β) Highly conductive central conductor
upward going return stroke and hence reduce its ve- fastened onto α series of projecting
locity of propagation below that of the speed of light. splines.
of lead to the formation leaders which Presumably,
lightning to view the might be better analogy suffi- Α have α currents either lightning high amplitude
ciently low longitudinal resistance to begin with or the flash as α piece of tinsel rope for decorating α Christ-
longitudinal resistance is reduced to low values suffi- mas tree: α central piece of string is surrounded by
ciently quickly by the high amplitude return strokes α tube of fine filaments projecting radially away from
that the longitudinal resistance presents less of an ob- the central core. In either case, the radial filaments
stacle for the upward going return stroke than it does can carry α radial current, it, but cannot carry an ax-
for the flashes which involve lower peak currents. ial current, ia. Accordingly, the lightning return stroke
per inductance high α and capacitance α high both has would that work little been have to seems There
α solid from respect it differs In this length. of unit longitudinal gra- of estimates above the substantiate
α possessing while which, diameter of large conductor α along voltage the since fact unfortunate an dient,
pos- simultaneously length, unit per capacitance high to importance of considerable is channel conducting
follows It length. unit per inductance low α sesses sub- α times, dwell strokes and swept of question the
of in- ratio the governed by impedance, surge the that 3. in Chapter further discussed ject
ductance of capacitance, is high while the velocity of
An additional factor that affects the velocity of propagation, governed by the product of inductance
the return stroke, and is the second reason that the and capacitance, is less than that of the speed of light.
velocity is less than the speed of light, is shown in
Fig. 2.15. As explained earlier, the leader deposits
Impedance in its wake α column of electrical charge with diam- of the Wagner flash: [2.21] concludes that
eters on the order of several meters. At the center the surge impedance of the lightning flash is of the
is α highly conducting core, which has α diameter of order of 3000 ohms for return strokes of large ampli-
26