all types. of pertain to aircraft since they effects sic
pre- problems the special focus on will sections Later
of fuel vapors, Ignition materials. sented by composite
it is treated that subject an important is such though,
Chapter 7. in separately
Melt-through Against Protection 6.2.1
aircraft, melting aluminum For conventional
relates as it of concern mostly, il points attachment
a sub- tanks, fuel in integral vapors of fuel to ignition
section This 7. in Chapter at length treated ject
only consider arbitrarily, will, effects lightning basic
skins the on produce may lightning that damage the
might that of holes size the such as aircraft, metal of
creation the or holes, of Whether'melting melted. be
discussed be will vapors, fuel ignite might spots, hot of
metal of thickness the to as Discussions 7. Chapter in
be will also such ignition prevent to skins required
chapter. cussed in that
only be concerned need designer the cases, most In
skins, fuel tank integral in of holes prevention with
not usually do metal skins in other holes small since
section describes This hazard. present a safety
that methods and formation hole that influence factors
skins. metal of melt-through prevent used to can be
very usually produces Lightning factors: Important
since metal object, to a it attaches where damage little
at the attachment is released energy little relatively
prod- is the that point at released The energy point.
or anode cathode current and the of the lightning uct
or lightning channel, end of the at the drop voltage
thus a tens of volts, few is a This drop root. arc
the rate at releases power current continuing ampere
volts. is 30 (or anode) drop the cathode kW if of 12
an electrical arc, and is channel The lightning
 0 of the root but only C), (30 000 very hot can be
is in the arc Also, surface. the metal arc contacts
air. into the escape is free to any energy released and
dam- spectacular produce can current Lightning
arc, a situation through a confined age when forced
An exception with aircraft. normally encountered not
in §6.2.2. covered is statement general to this
con- not is lightning channel that the Assuming
light- point where at the produced the damage fined,
controlled by largely is metal object a to ning attaches
to attached channel remains the lightning long how
swiftly across sweeps channel point. If the particular
effect the example, skin, for aluminum unpainted an
the surface. of pitting minor produce to be only might
completely not is channel the however, Usually,
in surface metal on a films Paint move. to Zones
indi- to attached channel the keep to tend will or 2A
allowing thus surfaces, painted along spots vidual

6.1 shows Fig. these spots. at to be melted skins metal
flash' lightning left by a marks pit an example of small
a metal surface. across sweeping
chan- the 1B or in Zones edges, At trailing 2B,
periods, melting for longer attached nel may remain
not usually is metal. This of amounts larger away
to nor necessary neither practical it is and hazardous,
edges. trailing holes in against protect
any holes against should be provided Protection at
a general but as flight, of safety endanger would that
on the anywhere occur to permitted be may rule holes
The impaired. of flight is not as safety long aircraft as on
en- might be flight of safety which under conditions
are: formation hole from dangered
of skin the through melted is hole the 1. When
containing enclosure other some or tank fuel a
materials. flammable
of a pres- depressurization hole causes When the 2. dis-
surized enclosure.
the mechani- degrades sufficiently the hole When 3.
cause to component of a flight-critical strength cal
failure. the
in pres- melted of holes reports been There have
are the holes but strokes, by swept fuselages surized
depres- to cause dia) c-mi than 0.1 (less small too far
not are edge areas trailing Since problems. surization
longer duration by holes melted larger the pressurized,
not posed edges have to trailing hanging on currents
the possibility although problem, depressurization a
that design. in any should be considered this event of the
sections. edge in trailing pressurization involves 40F
Melting be- The relationship transfer: charge and
been has hole burned size of and the lightning tween it
have shown studies the Basically, studied. extensively the
lightning at a away metal melted of the volume that air
car- the charge to related is closely point attachment
to the flash and lightning by the point into the ried
charge is Most of the and its thickness. type of metal
current com- and continuing by intermediate delivered
size and the of metal volume The ponents of the flash.
of thickness the by related course, are, of the hole of
skin. metal the
relation- Quantitative transfer: vs charge size Hole a
skin aircraft typical and electric arcs between ships
who f6.11 Hagenguth by reported in 1949 were metals
of con- amount of the measurements laboratory made
izes of various holes melt to necessary current tinuing free
relation- linear a nearly He found metals. in various 1A
de- (Q) charge of amount the between to exist ship
of amount the and spot attachment an arc to livered the
116