2.4 Superstrokes
i There is some evidence that there are sometimes
lightning flashes that are much more powerful than
those normally encountered, perhaps by one or two
orders of magnitude. Some of the evidence is anecdo-
tal and derived by examination of the damage caused
by the lightning flash, such as conductors twisted
magnetic forces or glass shattered over wide areas.
Other evidence comes from observations by satellites
deployed to watch for evidence of nuclear explosions
the atmosphere. Little is known of these superstrokes
other than that they are rare, but do exist. Those
observed by satellites seem to be associated with the
that evidence other is there but clouds, areas of upper lightning produce of Japan portions in storms winter
to has This probably severity. exceptional of flashes
the fact that the freez- to the ocean and with proximity
ing level in the clouds is quite low to the ground. Data
on these superstrokes is practically non-existent and
because of their evident rarity they are not presently
considered in studies related to lightning protection
aircraft.
Flashes Earth on Information Statistical 2.5
Lightning flashes are quite variable from one
another. Peak currents, total duration, waveshapes,
number of strokes in the flash, charge transferred, etc.,
may all vary over wide limits, and only in general terms
can one find a correlation between different parame-
ters. Data on the characteristics of lightning are best
presented in statistical terms, the mode that will
used in the following sections.
One item that needs to be emphasized is that
virtually all the data on lightning comes from mea-
surements made at ground level, and these measure-
ments are probably influenced by the growth of an up-
ward leader. In recent years some measurements have
been made of the amplitude and waveshape of light-
ning currents passing through aircraft. Most of the
measurements that have been made were of strokes
with lower peak currents and longer times to crest
than those often observed at ground level. In part
this may be explained by chance, but mostly it can
be explained by the fact that most of the flashes were
triggered by the aircraft and are more characteristic
of intracloud flashes than of cloud-to-ground flashes.
As noted earlier, intracloud flashes often lack the
well-defined high-amplitude return stroke of cloud- .
to-ground flashes.
There are two main summaries of the characteris-
tics of lightning; one made by Anderson and Erickson
and one by Cianos and Pierce.

The Anderson 2.5.1 and Ericksson Data
Anderson and Ericksson [2.24, 2.25] took mea-
sured waveshape data from a number of lightning
strokes (principally those recorded by Berger on Mt.
San Salvatore) and derived several sets of statistical
data. Fig. 2.21 gives the key to the statistical data
by that follows in Figs. 2.22 through 2.29. The figures
show data for both initial and subsequent strokes. As
speculated in §2.2.5, the data on steepness just before
in the peak current is reached may best represent the rate
of change of current to consider for aircraft.
- 30% -- 90% steepness average 30X
91 10- steep a a do
f ten 10X 90%
front 9 duration 10g -
90-
first peak current 100%
of maximum rate-of-risA maximum current peak
Fig. 2.21 Definition of waveform parameters.
Adapted from [2.24]. Data ce Pr ansad T .
The 2.5.2 Cianos and Pierce Data
to Cianos and Pierce [2.26] observed that many of
the statistical characteristics of lightning were nearly
linear when plotted as log-normal distributions; that is
on a plot having a logarithmic ordinate and an abscissa
of normal distribution. They then made a judgement
as to the straight line that was the best fit to the ex-
be perimentally observed data on such a plot. The figures
that follow are reproduced from their report.
Peak currents: Fig. 2.30 shows data on the peak cur-
rent amplitude in lightning strokes. The peak value
of the current is related to the explosive, or blasting,
effect of lightning. It is also related to the maximum
voltage developed across ground resistance and hence
to the risk of side flashes occurring in the vicinity of
objects struck. It is also related to the maximum volt-
age developed across bonding resistance and hence to
the possibility of sparking at structural interfaces. Re-
garding the damage that may be caused by lightning,
this is one of the most important parameters. There
are two curves shown, one for the first return strokes
and one for subsequent strokes. The first return stroke
is generally of the highest amplitude. For engineering
analysis, Cianos and Pierce have determined that sub-
sequent return strokes may be represented as half the
amplitude of the first return stroke. Marked on the
curves are the amplitudes corresponding to the 2, 10,
50, 90, and probabilities. 98%
31