is considered axis. The fuselage the minor meter along
to be considered. effects need that no end long enough
current of 1000 Α is assumed to enter Α lightning
fuselage. This through the rear of the and to exit nose
conduc- by 48 parallel is represented fuselage elliptical
tors Fig. shown in the manner in distributed
magnetic density, or the current 10.15 also shows Fig.
both of the cylinder, at the surface strength, field
determined φ-rom the program MAGFLD and analyti-
10.11. cally according to Eq.
to be fuselage Α hypothetical 10.14 Fig.
α wire grid. modeled as
Σ,
",
ε1 " 7 &6 6.
the of grid approximation 10.15 Wire Fig.
fuselage. elliptical
Magnetic quadrant current; One of distribution
This 10.16. elliptic cylinder is shown on Fig. the
within strength both field shows the magnetic oire
The by MAGFLD. calculated as the wire grid around
shown by the direc- is magnetic field of the orientation
length both by the the strength arrows, and tion of the
lines. Note contour by the indicated arrows and of the
tangen- are the surface to external lines the field that
inside field strength The magnetic the cylinder. tial to
since outside, that smaller than is much the grid
tend filaments of the each from the fields inside the
to add. tend grid they the outside whereas cancel, to
are largely grid the inside fields the 10.16 In Fig.
elliptic the defining of wires finite nurnbe" the of result

more conduc- by were defined the cylinder cylinder. If
the vanishing if be smaller, inside would the fields tors,
infinite. the number of wires were to become
, . , •. , . --. .σ-- ,* -.
".'" -. 10.15.Λ
. ι
" I- "" as " " '""'"
\
\ \ --. ,, --...- \
I\\ \ \ \
1 \ .\\ \ \\
Α
I, , , \ \ - ι
I •, IitS; Wi.
I .. τ_
,.•_.
current distribution. unequal Field with Fig. 10.16
α 10.17 shows Fig. distribution of current: Resistive
similar plot witl, one important difference: the current
magnetic each wire. The equal in forced to be was
determined would be that here pattern produced field
the pattern that current distribution, by the resistive
and current stage after currents the final represents
of the orientation The have become uniform. density
slight relatively shows only external to the grid field
important but one 10.16, in Fig. that from differences
the penetrate field lines some of the is that of difference
intensity in the and cause the increased field fig- surface
interior of the grid. and
of field distribution, example cavity: Α third Recessed
on each that 10.19, assumes and 10,18 shown in Figs.
α cavity. Such α recessed there is of the fuselage side
the equipment of approximation be an would cavity
rail- on frequently found equipment electronic bays for
current assume the again figures The itary aircraft. on
dis- the magnetic by be controlled to each filament in
in field the show clearly patterns The field •ribution.
at other field the than be less to cavity the recessed the
the fuselage. on exterior points
284