transformer. Safety isolation insulated or a well and inverter should point ground safety A ground point:
per- can be operated the oscilloscope a case In such test cir- ground, the facility which to be established
may They the aircraft. within by people fectly safely the generator side of low voltage supplies, power cuit
the measuring or of the aircraft framework touch the This be connected. sticks can grounding and safety
aircraft is the whether regard for without oscilloscope struc- the building attached to be point must ground
simultane- not they provided energized grounded or also may point This floor. in the preferably steel, tural
poten- ground external carrying wire any touch ously point, reference ground instrumentation an as serve
aircraft. the tial into function. The grounding major not its is that though
the air- brought into to be likely that is lead One to an fastened hook of a metal the form be in can stick
for signal carrying a trigger coaxial cable is a craft ground- a flexible to connected handle and insulating
an fitted with be must a cable Such oscilloscope. the should be provided hook grounding Another wire. ing
conductor center the neither so that device isolating generatox. the surge for
electrical current direct shield provides cable the nor
of Methods grounded objects. external to continuity equipment test voltage High Testing procedures:
are described such sources from hazards eliminating specif- operated should be personnel by qualified only
ex- hazards, safety to possible In addition §13.4.3. in do so. to designated ically
are aircraft the brought into leads connected ternally within remain not should observers a test, During
interference electromagnetic to carry undesirable likely aircraft the working on are who area. Those the test
oscilloscopes. measuring the onto the or enter approach should the test with or assisting
and is de--energized equipment test only when aircraft
the to adjacent is operated an oscilloscope When should operator the test they and Both grounded.
be may still it aircraft, the within not but aircraft, is equipment that to ensure responsibifity have equal
at- requires more operation safe but safely, operated connected. grounds safety and de-energized
The all apparatus. of location physical the tention to or generator surge the operating are who Those
to the be connected again must oscilloscope the of case to their repair should measuring equipment operating
an from powered be must oscilloscope the and aircraft re- are grounds safety the before stations designated
will the oscilloscope Physically power source. isolated may instruments measuring operating Those moved.
plat- of sort some on mounted be to have likely most or along- it (in aircraft the with contact physical be in
be should aircraft, This platform the alongside form simul- not are if they only test, but the during it) side
or work stepladder's Wooden insulating material. of an wires. return or the ground contact with in taneously
insulation. sufficient provide will platforms measuring operating those of exception the With
or re- aircraft the contact should one no instruments,
safely equipment such operate may still Personnel is surge generator the from a pulse lines when turn
for- have been porcedures that satisfactory provided applied. being
such proce- a minimum, As approved. and mulated the with contact have physical who must Those
insu- on an to stand the operator require should to dures responsibility a special have tests during aircraft
set upon chair on an insulating seated or be lating mat is contact of type what understand, they that ensure
or insulating Barriers or platform. insulating mat an unsafe to avoid are necessary procedures and what safe
wires. return over the be placed also sheets should contact.
of personnel, been cleared has area test the Once
in- measuring operating of those exception the (with
Safety Fuels 13.6.2 the enter, remove should operator the test struments)
the perform and station his to return grounding sticks,
an operational usually be will the aircraft Since tests, the of or a series of a test completion At the test.
tanks, in the be present may fuels residual aircraft, en- supplies, power the HV down shut should operator
may mixture vapor a fuel Since vents. and lines points energized all potentially ground and the area ter
the tanks be that recommended it is flammable, be ground stick enter. The to others any allowing before
at positive with dry nitrogen fided and of fuel drained or other pitot boom the aircraft on hung should be
alternative, As an test period. during the pressure tests. between current injection points
to fuel with filled completely be may tanks the fuel
re- the and spaces as possible many vapor as eliminate oscil- an When Instruments: measuring of Operators
filled be lines) vent and (such as fuel spaces maining be must case its aircraft within the is operated loscope
to assure so as pressure positive at nitrogen with dry it must and aircraft of the structure the to connected
period. during the test atmosphere non-flammable a batteries source; power isolated from an powered be
371