piece. None of of the test distorted by non-linearities to measuring minimize interference In order to
the response of in- have any practical effect on generator normally would these equipment, α complete surge
they can cause expensive controversy in of all the compornent genera- sulation, but have the low voltage side
tors connected together at one point, as shown in Fig. interpretation.
6.48. Early practice, before about 1960, called for α
Standards and Practices Test 6.8.2 α and Canada USA and waveshape in the ξ 40 ps 1.5
1 ξ50 ps waveshape in Europe. Tolerances on front and
Techniques and waveforms for direct effect light- tail times were intentionally loose, however, and there
ning tests on aircraft have been codified by industry was little practical difference between the two. Inter-
working groups and are presented in [6.34] and [6.38]. national standardizing activities have led to α compro-
The documents prcesent α general consensus of prac- mise and the present 1.2 ξ 50 ps wave is used world-
tice in both the USA and Europe. They have been wide. The wave, when not interrupted by breakdown
influenced by test practices that were common in the of α gap or insulation, is called α Full Wave, as dis-
electric power industry long before testing on aircraft cussed in §1.5.3 and Fig. 1.11. It is carried over into
was codified, and some discussion of those practices aircraft testing as -Full in Voltage Waveform Β Wave
paragraph 3.2.1.2 of [6.341. in interpreting [6.33] and [6.381. Power in- is useful
gap of α spark performance the When measuring as [6.33] such in documents is codified practice dustry
depends voltage the breakdown that found is usually it test- aircraft possible wherever and - 9.41] and [6.39
indus- Power increased. is voltage the rapidly how on guidelines, those follow to tended have practices ing
volt- the breakdown has been to measure try practice than necessary. no more deviating
voltage waves spark gaps by applying age of protective
Voltage test waves: Impulse voltage test waves were rising at the rate of 1000 kV/ps. Such α voltage can
developed in response to the observation that voltages be produced by suitable adjustment of the charging
were voltage and circuit elements of standard Marx circuit induced on power transmission lines by lightning
generally unidirectional and tended to have front times impulse generators. The resulting voltage is called α
of α few microseconds and decay times of α few tens of Steep Front, SF, wave. It is carried into aircraft testing
microseconds. Similar waveforms could be produced as Voltage - Waveform Α Basic Lightning Waveform
in the laboratory by simple, though expensive, surge in paragraph 3.2.1.1 of [6.34].
generators such as the Marx circuit impulse generator. Power industry practice also calls for evaluating
of transmission line insulators sparkover voltage idealized waves, the that might produce other Generators
such as square, trapezoidal or triangular waves, would when exposed to switching surges having front times
have been much complex. of several tens or hundreds of microseconds. Such volt-
be produced by Marx circuit impulse define the standard light- ages can also Present practice is to
ning test wave as one having α 1.2 ξ 50 ps waveshape, generators. Similar voltages are called for in aircraft
that is, α frorf time of 1.2 ps and α decay time of testing as Voltage - Waveform Δ Slow •'ont Model
ps, the definitions being as given in §1.5.2. Front of paragraph 3.2.2.2 of [6.34]. 50 Tests
time is taken as the virtual front time of Fig. 1.10 be-
cause it is often more clearly defined than the actual Current test waves: Power industry testing of surgc
time to crest. High voltage surge generators do not arresters calls for α 8 ξ 20 wave, es was discussed ps
deliver mathematically pure double exponential waves; in §1.10. In the aircraft industry, similar test waves
the wave is initially distorted by the firing of the spark are used for evaluating surge arresters used in aircraft,
gaps of the generator and the wave near crest may be but are not in use otherwise.
0
1617