Response of current transformers: Current trans-
formers are limited both in their low and high fre-
quency response, In the time domain they are charac-
terized by droop at long times and roll-off and oscilla-
tions at short times. Particularly with measurements
of short circuit current induced by resistive effects care
must be taken that the response at low frequencies is
adequate.
and Power system RF| transformers: Current trans-
formers operate by passing the secondary current
through α burden resistor to develop an output volt-
age. Α high burden resistor provides high output volt-
age, but poor low frequency response, while α low bur-
den resistor provides better low frequency response,
but lower sensitivity. No transformer should be used
without α burden resistor. Current transformers made
for power frequency metering and relaying are not pro-
vided with α burden resistor and are not generally
satisfactory for measurements, though if fitted with
α non-inductive burden resistor may be. Response
measurements would be necessary to prove the point,
Current transformers made for EMI/EMC measure-
ments are also usually not satisfactory since they are
meant to be loaded with the 50 ohm input impedance
of α measuring instrument and do not have satisfactory
low frequency response.
13.4.3 and Noise Shielding
Noise is induced into the measurement system in
several ways, as shown in Fig. 13.19. Electric and
magnetic fields can impinge on the measuring oscillo-
scope and induce noise directly into the internal cir-
cuits. Experience indicates that the best way to avoid
this problem is to install the oscilloscope in α shielded
enclosure.
dkftt Ves~nt
* sum
3_U_1
ownm .The
Fig. 13.19 Noise induced into measuring circuits.

Α more common source of noise comes from cur-
rent induced in the shields of the measurement cables.
Such currents may be caused by differences in poten-
tial between the point of measurement and the oscillo-
scope, or they may be caused by electric and magnetic
field induction into the measuring cable. As the cur-
rents flow through the resistance of the cable shield
they produce α voltage drop which appears at the ter-
minals of the cable. Minute amounts of magnetic and
electric flux also leak through the holes in the shield
and induce voltages. As the current on the cable flows
through the connectors at the oscilloscope additional
voltages are introduced. The way to eliminate these
problems is to use well shielded measurement cables
and to keep the noise currents out of the measurement
cable and away from the oscilloscope, usually by using
extra shielding or by using triaxial cables.
Shielding for oscilloscopes: The primary way to min-
imize noise problems during LTA tests is to shield the
oscilloscope and the measuring leads. Some reference
to such shielding has been made, but more discussion is
in order since experience has shown α lot about which
techniques are useful and which are not.
Fig. 13.20 shows more of how to shield the mena-
suring oscilloscope and treat the leads carrying signals
into the oEcilloscope. There are two main concerns.
The first is to prevent incoming leads from carrying
noise current into the box and radiating electromag-
netic noise directly into the oscilloscope. The box can
shield against external electromagnetic fields, but not
against fields produced by currents on the shields of
the measuring cables. The other concern is to prevent
current from flowing across connectors. Connectors
(particularly BNC connectors) are α weak link. their
resistances are relatively high and they are not partic-
ularly well shielded.
Shielding measurement ceaMowe for The best way to
avoid problems is to keep noise currents off the shields
of the measuring cables. This can be done by fitting
all incomning leads with external an braided shield and
terminating this shield on the shielding box, not on the
input oonnectors of the oscilloscope. Triaxial cable is
good, but it is easy to slide woven copper braid over
the top ordinary of coaxial cable.
objective of the shield is to keep noise cur-
rents the off measuring cable and away from the os.
cilloscope, particularly the input connectors where the
oscilloscope is most vulnerable to noise pickup. is It
best to terminate the external shield on the rear of
the box and as far from the input of the oscilloscope
as possible. The inconvenience of having to reach into
the back of the box to make connections is part of
367