.
from the charge center. At the very low altitudes 2 (rd
kim) where the breakdown strnngth of air is greater the
trigger region is only a few hundred meters across. In
fact, because the charges are really extended and not
point sources, it is possible that at tinse low altitudes
triggering is not possi ble.
141
12- 4I
10 volts per metert
10 jo~(a)
10
10
108 10
Lightning
In elementary terms the response of an aircraft is
illustrated on Fig. 3.23, which shows the F-106 air-
charge center. directly toward a positive craft flying
will be- to the ambient field The aircraft, in response
come polarized; that is, electrons will be pulled from
the aft end towards the nose. Thus it will accumulate
"a negative charge (surplus of electrons) at the nose and
"a positive charge (deficiency of the electrons) at the aft
end, though the net charge on the aircraft will remain
unchanged. The field strength at the surfaces of the
aircraft will be the sum of that due to the incident
electric field and the fields due to the induced charges,
which is to say that field will be enhanced by the t0e
presence of the aircraft. The electric field at the nose
will point towards the fuselage and at the aft end will
point away from the fuselage, the polarity of the fields
being as defined in §2.2.2. the orientation F. - shown,
the enhanced field will be largest at the nose of the
aircraft.
As the aircraft flies towards the charged regions
the electric fields at the surface of the aircraft will
slowly increase; that is, become more negative at one
59

end and more positive at the other end. Eventually the
enhanced field at the nose will become large enough
to cause a burst of corona, the electrons at the nose
flowing off into the air ahead of the nose. This will
reduce the field at the nose (make it less negative) and
ultimately arrest the discharge.
Eemblest
OBSERVATION POINT
(d) (e)
Fig. 3.23 Expected behaviour of triggered
oriented lightning for nose to tail
electric field.
(a) Observation point
(b) and (c) Electric field
(d) and (e) Magnetic field
The flow of electrons from the nose can equally
well be viewed as a flow of positive charge from the air
onto the aircraft, thus leaving the aircraft with a net
positive charge. This additional positive charge will
enhance the field at the aft end, eventually causing an-
other breakdown there. That discharge may be viewed
either as transferring positive charge into the air aft of
the aircraft or as transferring negative charge from the
air into the aircraft. Not every discharge at the nose
will cause a simultaneous discharge at the aft end, but
on balance all the negative charge transferred into the
air at the nose will be balanced by charge transferred
into the aircraft from a discharge at the aft end. The
net result is a pulse of current flowing through the air-