Examples of acceptable and unacceptable sealant
coverage for fasteners are shown in Fig. 7.42. Fig.
fag- at the sides of the shows sealant applied 7.42(α) lghtna current
atnetener, but not of sufficient quantity to prevent arc pres-
sure blowby through the sealant or at the interfaces be-
tween the sealant and the fastener. This is remedied,
as shown in Fig. 7.42(β), by applying α coating thick
enough to prevent arc product breakthrough. In addi-
tion, cant amount of siigniff extended over the fastener sealant has been the
current flows through head, thus eliminating the possibility of arc product
single fastener and rib blowby through the sealant at this location.
arcing can Although with fasteners: Cntainment =Co•
take place at any point of contact between the fas-
tener and the structure, the most significant arc- CFC
multiple fasners and ribs share
fastener and the of shaft the between place takes ing in level current lowering current,
any single fastener or rib the hole surface. Pressure then builds up in this area
and can vent under the fastener nut or washer into the
in this faying surfaces since the tank vapor space fuel
Fig. 7.40 Effect of multiple paths area are very hard to manufacture smooth.
on current density. Α method of containing these products is to use
which provide α mechanical seal. Examples fasteners
of shown in Fig. 7.43. Each this type of fastener are of
to contain fabricated with α gasket these fasteners is Dome
.
Nut the arc products which result from contact between
the fastener and the structure. Arcing may occur be-
tween surfaces in close proximity, such as between the
in the skin surface as shown housing and the fastener
primers or non-conductive sketches, but electrically
finishes on the skin surface may help prevent this prob-
lem. Typical installations should be tested to be cer-
Fuel Sealant tai.
Side Arc Products ...
Escape
(β)
Fastener - Gasket (α) SWasher
0.10 in.--
~~~~~~~0.12 in.• :VZ:::••, ν
(β) Minimum Thickness
Fig. 7.41 Fastener sealing concepts. Fig. 7.42 Guidelines for overcoating of fasteners.
(α) Dome nut
coverage Inadequate (α) α fastener over (v) Sealant
(χ) Washer under α fastener (β) Adequate coverage
208