.@
Chapter 6
DIRECT EFFECTS
According to legend,'protection of aircraft
tures was important even to the ancient Greeks.
was not easy, however, to escape from It
Crete, since Minos kept all under his ships
military guard, and now offered large re- a
ward apprehension. But Daedalus for his
made a pair for himself, and an. of wings
for Icarus, the quill feathers other of which
were threaded together, but the smaller ones
held in place by wax. Having tied on Icarus'
pair him, he said with tears in his eyes: for
"My son, be warned! Neither soar too high,
lest the sun melt the wax; nor low, sweep too
lest the feathers be wetted sea!" Then by the
arms into his pair he slipped his own of wings
and they me closely," he flew off. "Follow
cried, not set your course." "do own
they sped away the island in a As from
north.easterly direction, flapping their wings,
the fishermen, shepherds, and ploughmen who
gazed upward mistook them for gods.
and Paros They had leftNaxos, Delos,
behind them on hand, and were the left leav-
ing Lebynthos and Cclymne behind on the
right, when Icarus father's in- disobeyed his
structions and began soaring towards the, sun,
rejoicing in the sweeping lift of his great
wings. Presently, when Daedalus over looked
he could no longer see Icarus; his shoulder,
but scattered feathers floated on the waves
sun had melted the below. The heat of the
wax, and Icarus had fallen into the sea and
drowned. Daedalus circled around, until the
corpse rose surface, and then carried it to the
nearby island now called Icaria, where to the
he buried it.
Robert Graves, The Greek Myths I (Balti-
more: Penguin Books, 1955):312-13.
Introduction 6.1
The materials from which an aircraft is made and
the methods used to hold these materials together,
forming the aircraft structure, are factors as important
in protecting a modem aircraft from hazardous natu-
Stion
ral environments as they were for the mythical Icarus.
Conventional aluminum airframes of riveted construc-
have, by virtue of their excellent electrical conduc-
115

PROTECTION
struc- tivity, rarely suffered critical structural damage from
lightning strikes; and these structures have provided
excellent protection for vulnerable systems, as well as
for personnel, carried within. There are some impor-
tant lightning problems that must be considered, such
as protection of fuel systems and protection of avionic
systems from indirect effects, but such protection has
seldom had niuch of an impact on the basic aircraft
structure.
But the day of all-metal aircraft is ending. Air-
craft are being constructed using fiber-reinforced plas-
tics which have desirable high strength and light
weight, but these materials have much less electrical
conductivity than aluminum. Some of these materials
are being joined together with adhesives, which have
essentially no conductivity. Whereas the designer of
the all- metal structure needs to add little, if anything,
to the design of the structure to achieve adequate light.
ning protection, the designerv of nonmetallic struc-
tures must pay particular attention to the lightning
environment, taking positive measures to provide con-
ductive paths to ensure safety of flight.,
-This chapter reviews some basic lightning effects
on metal structures, including metal objects com-
mon to all types of aircraft, objects such as bond-
ing jumpers, hinges and light fixtures. It then re-
views lightning effects on non-metallic materials such
as fiberglass, ararnid fiber and carbon fiber composites
and concludes by discussing direct effects test tech-
niques and practices appropriate for all categories of
aircraft. The discussions will emphasize performance
as it relates to the electrical effects of lightning.
Direct 6.2 Effects on Metal Structures
The direct effects of lightning on metal structures
were described in Chapter 4 and include the following:
Melting or burning at attachment points. 1.
temperature Resistive 2. rise.
3. Magnetic force effects.
4. Acoustic shock waves.
5. Arcing and sparking at bonds, hinges, and joints.
6. Ignition of vapors within fuel tanks.
This section will focus on protection against these ba-