in §7.14.4. given is tests detection source and spark arc
Ad- line voltage: bond adhesive of Measurement
low as possible, be as should line voltages hesive bond
speci- 500 volts as limit of upper with α maximum
measure be desirable to It may by fled MIL-Β-5087Β.
arises, but opportunity when the line voltages bond
to gain engi- as an attempt should be viewed the tests
to verify α design. as an attempt data, and not neering
result line voltages can know if bond only way to The
tests on the conduct full level or sparks is to in arcs
wing.
7.14.4 Detection of Internal Arcs and Sparks
on α full to performed tests most important The
arc and of potential detection the tank involve size
concern in- of Areas within the tank. spark sources
their adapters, and caps fuel filler doors, access dude
fuel quan- lines, vent fuel and in couplings valves, drain
conduc- interfaces between electrically and probes, tity
elements, tive
nu- the of because required be will tests Many
each with checked, be to which need areas merous
lightning severe applicable at the performed of them
damage order to minimize level. In threat current
should be the tests of the majority article, the test
the test currents into the test by directing performed
the such as point, attachment typical at α specimen
Arc attachment tank. wet wing for α area tip wing
tip, area, wing skin to α wing be made must also tests
(to doors valves, access drain vent and cap, filler fuel
fasten- to several door door as well as of the the center
the to extend which fasteners skin exterior and ers),
the tank. of interior
by performed be may sparks and of arcs Detection
vapor α flammable use of the through methods: two
technique. photographic the or by mixture
placing involves test This tests: vapor Flammable
on if any test and seeing in the tank vapor flammable
is more suit- The method the vapor. tank ignites the
than it is of small volume structures able for testing
volume of the tank tanks. If the full size fuel for most
to per- be desirable it may small enough, is interior
such as α 1.2 vapor tests with α flammable form the
air. Suitable of propane and mixture stoichiometric
use of blow such as the should be taken, precautions
The of the structure. preclude explosion out panels, to
con- if the tank is useful mixture technique fuel/air
plumbing and an intricate interfaces tains numerous
able to would not be that α camera such arrangement
the tests. concern during of the areas of view all
of the Advantages Advantages and disadvantages:

to ability the vapor ignition technique include fuel
with tanks or construction complex of tanks evaluate
to evaluate ability the interiors, and spaced tightly
translu- of or completely partially constructed tanks
in- the dangers Disadvantages include cent material.
which in- vapors with flammable herent in working
damage as possible as well hazards to personnel clude
pinpoint the cause inability to the test article, the to
large the need for one occur, and ignition should of an
tanks. tests on large of fuel for volumes
mi- The 200 ignition tests: fuel vapor of Sensitivity
on is based criterion level ignition minimum crojoule
the Bureau of Mines work by Lewis and Von Elbe and
mini- determine to was work their However, others.
no infor- characteristics and contained ignition mum
related statistics or conditions, procedures, on mation
that showed [7.68] by Crouch Tests to the ignitions.
op- under ignition 200 microjoule of α the probability
to 1 1000 of 1 in order the was of conditions timum
be may criterion microjoule the 200 Thus in 10,000.
which level, 600 microjoule to α 500 and severe too
may time, the of percent 10 1 and between occurred
realistic. more be
oxygen rich an be to use would alternative An
sparks. 200 microjoule to detect (30% oxygen) to mixture
in ignitions result this ratio would that Crouch found
or fuel photographic Whether the the time. 70-80% of
program α test used during is vapor ignition technique
personnel test information of the type on depend will
configuration of the physical and the obtain wish to
tested. to be specimen
technique The photographic detection: Photographic
Informa- testing. scale full for method preferred is the
photographic the using testing source ignition on tion
and [7.28] of in §4.1.3 is described of detection method
visible the that state These documents of [7.63]. §5.0
detected can be ignition of source α from emitted light
rating sensitivity α light having film on photographic α
α camera with in conjunction when used ASA 3000 of
of φ/43. an aperture whose lens is set to
and of advantages The disadvantages: Advantages
to able it is safe, are that method the photographic
can be used to arc or spark, source of an pinpoint the
system as well as fuel small tanks large and test both
minimum amount requires α and that it components,
inability of include the equipment. Disadvantages of
com- due to tank areas of α tank to view all cameras
ability of the marginal space constraints, plexity and
to detect 200 microjoule combination camera/film the
on the photo- confusion of dust the possible sparks,
to detect the inability minute spark, and graph as α
of of the material all or part and sparks when arcs
218