circuit that will be light circuit: The first Position
α circuit supply- 8.12. was shown in Fig. discussed,
on the external to α position light mounted ing power
fuel tank. An electrical diagram of the circuit, shown
in Fig. 8.12(β), shows that the circuit consisted of
one wire supplying power to the filament of the po-
sition light with the return circuit for the light being
through the wing structure. Accordingly, if the light-
ning current contacts the external tank, that circuit
will be influenced by the resistance of the hangers R 1
fastening the tank to the wing, by R , the inherent
2
resistance of the wing, and by magnetic flux arising
from the flow of current.
WING' WING
TANK-
Τ
POSITION or 1,, V
" SURGE
GENERATOR
FILAMENT
0 FLUX 0 0 0
(α) (β) V
TANK WING R η - J J 2
ζ)Iziz
"'lL(δ)
-€ -40 40Α
 = R Λ = 11pH 2φ 2 2
4.3 uH Lt =
[Ri:= 700 pO
(α)
Fig. 8.12 Α wing tip circuit.
(α) Circuit orientation
of circuit details (β) Electrical
(χ) Open circuit voltage
(δ) Short circuit current
(ε) Equivalent circuit
Typical test results are given in Fig. 8.12(χ) and
8.12(δ). The open circuit voltage is seen to rise rapidly
to its crest and to decay more rapidly than does the
injected current shown in Fig. 8.11(β). This indicates
that the open circuit voltage was responding primarily
to magnetic flux.
When the conductor was shorted to ground at the
instrument enclosure, the short circuit current rose to

of time as the same length its crest in approximately
the same much and displayed injected current did the
the injected current. waveshape as did
Fig. 8.12(ε) shows an approximate equivalent cir-
cuit that might be derived. Λ, and represent α R.
transfer impedance between the current flowing in the
wing and the voltage developed on the circuit. Λ and
2
R represent the inherent inductance and resistance
2
of the wires between the fuselage and the light. The
transfer inductance and resistance are merely those
values which, when operated upon by the external
lightning current, produced the observed open circuit
voltage. They do not necessarily represent any clearly
definable resistance or inductance of the wing.
Pylon circuit: Α different type of circuit is that shown
in Fig. 8.13. In this circuit α conductor ran through
the leading edge of the wing and terminated in an open
circuit on α pylon mounted underneath α wing. In
the electrical detail circuit shown in Fig. 8.13(β), it
can be seen that this circuit would not respond to the
voltage developed across the resistance between the
tank and the wing. The circuit would respond in some
and measure to some fraction of the wing resistance to
some fraction of the magnetic field set up by the flow
of current in the wing, but since the circuit was only
capacitively coupled to the wing, the total coupling
impedance ~of should have been, and was, less than that circuit the shown in Fig. 8.12.
The purpose of the conductor shown in Fig. 8.13
bolts explosive to and relay α to power to supply was
the 8.13 Fig. In weapon. α hold to used pylon the in
the on load no was there so installed, not was pylon conductor. Fig. 8.14 shows the results when that py-
lon was installed, when the conductor was connected
to α relay with α return through the aircraft structure,
and when the lightning flash was allowed to contact the
pylon. The combination of α structural return path for
the circuit and α lightning flash terminating upon the
pylon and thus including the resistive drop across R3,
the resistance between the pylon and the wing, served
to make the voltage much greater than it was when
was No attempt circuited. was open the conductor
made to completely analyze from which area the total
flux was coming or whether the amount of magnetic
flux representing 01, that in the pylon, or repre- 02,
senting that in the wing, was larger.
Antenna circuit: Α third circuit, and one which illus-
trates the interaction between the lightning developed
voltage and the circuit response is shown in Fig. 8.15.
In this circuit α slot antenna excited by α grounded
stub and fed from α length of 75ν1 coaxial cable was
installed in the leading edge of the wing. The shorted
stub that excited the slot antenna was the predorni-
232