this section will be limited to semiconductors. Ca-
pacitors and some other components ate discussed in
§171. ,aud §17.7.
17.5.1 Theoretical Models
Theoretical models have been developed which re-
late significant changes in the properties of a semicon-
ductor PN junction to high temperatures generated in
the junction region during application of a high voltage
pulse. Theoretical models based on thermal analysis
the junction region yield a mathematical relation be-
tween junction temperature and power dissipation in
the junction region. This relation can be used to de-
fine a constant characterizing the operation in a given
time domain of each device,
17.5.2 Empirical Models
just de- correlations to the theoretical In addition
the have been used in data the experimental scribed,
obtained are which relations of empirical development
from two models of semiconductor junction device- the
junction capacitance model and the thermal resistance
model. These models provide a framework from which
the power failure threshold of an untested device can
be estimated from the quantities listed in a data sheet
description prepared by the manufacturer for a diode
or a transistor.
17.5.3 Limitations
The assumptions made about junction heating
the models in the derivation of and transfer of heat
limit their applicability to the region of pulse dura-
tions of approximately 0.1 to 20 ps. For longer times
appreciable heat transfer may take place away from
the function area during the pulse input. For short
pulses the power levels are so high to (1 10 kW) that
very large currents flow; consequently, the joule heat-
ing in the bulk material is appreciable. The transition
behavior between these three regions of pulse duration
(regions that will be more precisely described later in
this section) is not well defined and may vary from
one device type to another. Examination of available
data indicates the transition region generally occurs
between ns 100 and I ps.
Still another limitation is fundamental to the work
summarized in this section: it applies only to junction
burnout. Other modes of device failure, such as ruetal-
lization burnout and internal arcing, are not treated.
Based on the results obtained in studies of junction
burnout, it would seem that other effects, such as met-
Stion. allization burnout, occur at higher power input levels
than those input levels sufficient to damage the junc-

17.5.4 Failure Mechanisms-Semiconductors
The two principal breakdown modes for semicon-
ductor PN junctions are the following:
1. Surface damage around the junction as a result of
arcing.
2. Internal damage to the junction region as a result
of elevated temperature.
of Surface refers to the establishment of a damage
high-leakage path around the junction which effec-
tively eliminates any junction action. The junction
itself is not necessarily destroyed, since, if it were pos-
sible to etch the conducting material away from the
surface, the device might be able to return to its nor-
1mal opera.irg state. This is not practical, of course, in
an operational semiconductor. It is equally likely that
be the path would leakage any surface of the formation
the bulk of the development in of excessive heat result
typically be an irreversible would this and material,
phenomenon.
It is very difficult to predict theoretically the con-
ditions which will lead to surface damage because they
depend upon many variables, such as the geometrical
design and the details of the crystal structure of the
surface. The theoretical prediction of surface arciig
under pulse conditions is not practical 7.7]. [1 It should
be cautioned thbst surface damage, in the general case,
may occur in devices at power levels which are orders
of magnitude below those sustainable by devices in
17.8]. 1 bulk damage occurs which
Bulk damage, which results in permanent change
in the characteristic electrical parameters of the june-
tion, indicates some physical change in the structure
of the semiconductor crystal in the region of the june-
tion. The most significant change is melting of the
junction as a result of high temperatures. Other types
of change may involve the impurity concentrations, the
formulation of alloys of the crystal materials, or large a
increase in the number of lattice imperfections, either
crystal dislocations or point defects.
Example: The simplest structure to analyze is a diode.
Consider Fig. 17.25. In this diode a current is ascumed
to flow as a result of some outside stimulus and, in do-
ing so, to produce a voltage across the diode. This
voltage may be the forward bias voltage (0.5 to 1.5
V), or it may be the reverse breakdown ioltage if the
biased outside stimulus has the diode in the re
direction. Assume that I is a square wave and that
V is not a function of time, as it might be if V de-
pended upon the junction tempeiature. The instan-
taneous power dissipated in the diode is then also a
453