form between the contacts. With high power genera-
tors the contacts may burn and become ragged, but
since operation is quite intermittent, cleaning from
time to time with sandpaper or a file is sufficient
restore the switch. Rotating contacts can be used
produce multiple pulses. Immersing the contacts
insulating oil can reduce the arcing that takes place
the contacts close.
Mercury switches: Switches with mercury wetted
contacts are useful for low power generators operating
at a few hundred volts, largely because the contacts
switch cleanly and do not bounce,
Thyratrons: Hydrogen thyratrons, such as the 5C22,
are suitable for operation at up to about 10 - 15 kV
and peak currents of several hundred amperes. Thc
miniature 2D21 is suitable up to about 1000 V and
peak currents of several tens of amperes. Both will
switch in about 20 ns. For operation in oscillatory
is neces- 18.12, Fig. diode, a free-wheeling generators
sary.
DC
trig
diodwheln p
-biods
Fig. 18.12 Thyratron switch with free
wheeling diode.
Thyristors: Low power, sensitive gate thyristors are
suitable for charging voltages up to about 1000 V and
discharge currents of several tens of amperes. They
may also be operated in series for higher voltages,
Switching time can be on the order of 100 ns, though
care must be taken to give sufficient gate drive. Free-
wheeling diodes are necessary for use in oscillatory cir-
cuits.
Generators 18.3.3 Using Power Amplifiers
Some waveforms are difficult to produce using ca-
pacitor discharge circuits, particularly the higher fre-
quency oscillatory waveforms. Capacitors must be
small to obtain the~high frequency and consequently
store little energy. Switches may not change state fast
enough and circuit losses may be high, precluding the
generation of transients with little damping, high Q.

Some of these problems can be overcome by gen-
erating the waveforms at low levels and using power
amplifiers to couple the signal to the circuit under test. i
to Amplifier aided circuits are also useful if the intent is
to to generate square waves or complex waves other than
in double exponential or damped oscillatory.
as
Waveform generation: Two basic approaches are pos-
sible. One, Fig. 18.13(a), involves direct generation of
the desired waveform, followed by linear amplification.
The other, Fig. 18.13(b), involves modulation of a sl-
nusoidal input, followed by amplification. Waveforms
for (a) may be generated by switching of and C R, L
circuits or by digital synthesis with arbitrary waveform
generators. Modulation may be either by direct am-
plitude modulation or by multiplication of a sinusoidal
wave by the desired modulating pulse.
amplifier
AAAAAa.u
(a)
(a)
vvv
(b)
Fig. 18.13 Transient generation with amplifiers.
(a) Direct amplification
sine wave a of Modulation (b)
Amplifiers: Most indirect effects testing calls for high
voltage and high current output from the ampfifier.
While average power levels may be low, peak power
levels may be several tens of kilowatts. Amplifiers gen-
erally use high voltage vacuum tubes of the type used
for broadcast transmitters. Vacuum tube amplifiers
are well adapted to delivering high voltages, but many
designs are not capable of delivering high short cir-
cuit currents. Size, complexity and cost of high power
amplifiers are, in any case, great.
18.3.4 Multiple Prise Generators
Some tests reoI.iire injection of a group of pulses,
most commonly to simulate the effects of the multiple
stroke and multiple burst portions of the standardized
lightning environment discussed in §5.5.6. If equip-
ment is to be subjected to multiple pulses there may
be little point in requiring single pulses as well.
Reasons for multiple pulses: Reasons for injecting
multiple pulses, rather than just single pulses or single
472