con- amperes hundred a few of the order on currents oc- which current, change of rate of maximum the that
are referred These flash. the lightning in to flow tinue rate of the most representative is crest, just before curs
there expect, may one As currents. continuing to as chan- the lightning in increase can current the which at
the re- of tail the between demarcation clear-cut no is in point particular one passes stroke return as the nel
or between current, and the intermediate stroke turn sub- that the observation by is supported This space.
of start the and current intermediate the of end the at measured even flash, a lightning in strokes sequent
current. continuing the faster considerably times front exhibit level, ground
flash. in the stroke the initial of time rise the than
in §2.2.7. are discussed strokes Subsequent
re- leading edge of the front time of the The true
.-
has from ground remote a point as it passes turn stroke
probably never been measured. It seems appropriate,
lead- than the be faster that it will to assume however,
Mea- at ground level. edge of currents measured ing
have recorded instrumented aircraft surements with ADDIONACHARGE
the of many but currents, lightning of front times the POCKETS
to have of flashes presumed have been measurements
flashes of those Most aircraft. the by triggered been CLOUD
of intercloud been more representative to have seem
to ground flashes. flashes, than of cloud
Development of the Lightning Further 2.2.6
Flash
CHARGE ON BRANCHES
from the leader charge has been drained After the
stroke, the current upwardly moving return by the 6
though at a rate slower the ground decays, measured at
than that at which the current rose to its peak. Oscil- UPWARD-MOVING RETURN STROKE
were previously typical decay times lograms showing
displays the current on in Fig. 2.17. The figure shown
front and emphasizing the time scales, two different
front showing the of the oscillograms the tail. Some
2.16. as those shown in Fig. are the same
of the flash. 2.18 Firther development cloud, it may Fig. approaches the As the return stroke
in as shown of the leader, branches other encounter
Return Strokes Subsequent 2.2.7. these branches, the charge As it passes Fig. 2.18.
lightning into the developing in them will feed stored
the current. increase and momentarily stroke
the cloud within discharge developing the Usually cloud. reach the stroke will return the Eventually,
cell of the cloud reach into a different will eventually phenomena occurring within of the An understanding
is another region where there at any rate, into a see what or, not being able to is hindered by the cloud
charge. body of electrical the phenom- localized but some of place in the cloud, takes
is called a restrike, there occurs what At this stage of electrical inferred from measurements ena can be
with starts The restrike 2.1(c). F of Fig. Component and from flash the developing by produced radiation
to form from the cloud being lowered additional charge return after the initial of the flash the usual behavior
to recharge the central or, more properly, into a new leader, the return stroke reaches has passed. As stroke
of the because Presumably, the old leader. portion of heav- much more a to encounter it appears the cloud,
pro- this charging channel, in the ionization residual below the the air it did in than leader branched ily
process step-by-step smoothly, not in the cess occurs charge dif- thus tap the stroke can The return cloud.
into the virgin penetrates the initial leader than by which of the cloud, rather a large volume fused through
of a dart leader instead this is called It would air. Accordingly, more localized leader. the charge in the only
the the initial stepped leader, leader. Unlike intermediate a stepped during this period that the appear to be
leader When the dart leader is seldom branched. dart current is developed,
The stroke again occurs. level, a return the reaches ground to spread through the discharge continues As
high, since the stroke is again of this return a second, amplitude of fractions of times on the order cloud, for
28