.
Chapter 12
FIELDS THE INTERNAL
12.1 Introduction
The most important mode by which electromag-
netic energy couples to the interior of aircraft (metal
aircraft at least) is through apertures, These are open-
ings in the skin of an aircraft, examples of which in-
dude cockpits, wheel wells, bomb bays, seams, joints
and covers on access panels. There are several reasons
for the importance of aperture coupled fields. One
that apertures are effectively the only means through
which external electric fields may penetrate to the inte-
rnor of the aircraft. Another is that some apertures are
Also, un- α prime example. large, windows being quite
metal surfaces, diffusion through coupled by like fields
but interior field is not retarded, the waveshape of the
external electric tends to be the same as that of the
and magnetic fields. The most important consequence
of the coupled fields relates to the voltages induced by
apt is more intensity peak of given Α field fields. such
than if quickly to its peak if it rises trouble to cause
in fact, apertures, Small distorted. and delayed it is
of the coupled rate of change accentuate the tend to
high at coupling efficient they are more that is, fields;
frequency components of the external electromagnetic
components. coupling low frequency field than at
been of con- aperture coupling has The subject of
siderable theoretical interest since the time of Lord
and Since literally hundreds of papers Rayleigh [12.1].
on the subject, no attempt articles have been written
this review. Instead, be made to give α complete will
chapter will discuss the basic points of aperture cou-
pling and make reference to the literature for addi-
tional details. Simple techniques will be given to es-
timate or bound responses. Also, numerical methods
will be discussed which may be used to obtain more
accurate results. For α more complete treatment of the
reader the coupling, aperture of aspects mathematical
is referred to some of thf review articles that have
appeared [12.2 - 12.5]. Ref. [12.2] is particularly rec-
ommended.
Α distinction was made above between large and
small apertures. One way to distinguish between large
and small apertures is to relate the physical size of
the aperture to the wavelength of the frequencies of
flash in α lightning the energy most of interest. Since
= (Α below 50 MHz in the frequencies is contained
μ) it follows that most apertures on aircraft are small
with respect to wavelength.

THROUGH APERTURES COUPLED
Another way to distinguisb between large and
small apertures is to relate them to the size of the
aircraft. With α small aperture one may logically as-
sume that the calculations of the external response of
the aircraft (Chapter 10) and the calculations of how
much energy propagates through an aperture may be
is treated separately. However, if the aperture is large
with respect to the aircraft, then it will have an ef-
fect on the external response of the aircraft and the
calculations of external and internal response must be
in- apertures may Examples of large done together.
doors on α or dielectric windows in α cockpit clude the
wells on open bomb bay doors or wheel helicopter, or
aircraft. α conventional
Basic Concepts 12.2
through couple fields magnetic and electric Both
to de- is convenient it small apertures, For apertures.
electric the external of in terms this coupling termine
aperture exist at the fields which would and magnetic
con- α perfectly closed by were if the aperture location
ducting surface. These fields are referred to as the
along with and H.,, which, circuit fields, E,, short
to determine of the aperture are used the geometry
the magnitude of hypothetical electric and magnetic
which are placed just in- dipoles (equivalent antennas)
The process is shown in side the shorted aperture.
and 12.2. Figs. 12.1
-[
- exterior interior interior
dipole
,I
(α) (β)
electric of equivalent Development Fig. 12.1
dipole. field 6
(α) Actual electric field
(β) Equivalent dipole
335