Oscillatory transients: Basic oscillatory circuits are
shown in Fig. 18.11. The frequency of oscillation is
C 2F7ρ (18.4) 1
The decrement of the wave may be controlled either by
adding series or parallel resistance or by the residual
losses of the circuit and the load to which the generator
is connected. Most commonly the intrinsic losses are
enough to give Q 6 and high enough to make it dif- _
ficult to achieve 24. Taking Q = the output from only
α portion of Λ results in α lower output impedance and
makes the effect of load resistance less noticeable, but
is achieved at the cost of reduced output magnitude.
The intrinsic output of Fig. 18.11(α) is α cosine
wave, not the sine wave commonly cited in specifica-
tions. Α sinusoidal outout can be obtained by tak-
ing the output from the energy storage capacitor, Fig.
18.11(β), using α blocking capacitor to avoid cou- Cb,
pling the dc charging voltage to the output circuit.
High - +
Hg DC
output
SCL
(α) ------
ihimum +
DC High
C u
(β)
Fig. 18.11 Oscillatory transient generators
(α) Cosine front
(β) Sine front
Questions regarding waveshape: Specifications on os-
cillatory waveshapes commonly call for damped sine
waves (Eqs. 18.2 or 18.3), but actually obtaining α
true sinusoidal front is sometimes difficult. Sometimes
second order effects come into play, particularly with
high frequency generators and result in waveforms in
which the highest amplitude of the transient occurs
not on the initial half cycle, but on α subsequent half
cycle,
Α common deficiency in specifications is that they
do not give tolerances on allowable waveform distor-
tion. While specificLtions usually cite Eq. 18.3, that
represent convention and not be α real engi- may only
neering requirement. Α better specification, from the
standpoint of those making tests, would often be
SE Eo-(C'rlt/Q)]cos(2wft) (18.5)
-

From an engineering viewpoint the important
points are probably:
1. Correct maximum amplitude in order to stress the
components under test.
2. Correct decrement of the wave, over the first few
cycles, in order to maintain stress for sufficient
time.
3. Correct frequency, in order to excite internal res-
onances.
Questions for those preparing specifications or re-
quiring tests are:
1. Does the exact shape of the first quarter cycle
make any practical engineering difference?
2. Does the exact shape of the first few cycles make
engineering difference? any practical
3. Does α test wave with α front that approximates
requirement α test satisfy to suffice wave α cosine
18.3? by Eq. defined wave for α sine calls that
4. Does the fact that α test wave achieves its max-
amplitude later than the first half cycle
make any practical engineering difference?
18.3.2 Switches for Generators
Several types of switch can be used for capacitor
discharge generators. The best discussions of various
types of switche are apt to be found in the older lit-
erature, such as [18.1]. In oscillatory circuits, losses
associated with switches are one of the major factors
governing the of Q the circuit.
Spark gaps: Higher power generators, those operat-
ing at voltages greater than 3 - 5 kV, commonly ;,
use spark gaps as switches. They may be triggered
gaps fired by applying α pulse to α trigger electrode,
gaps that self-fire when the voltage across the energy
storage capacitor exceeds the breakdown voltage or
by mechanically closing the electrodes until sparkover
takes place.
Gaps in air are the simplest to build, but with
high power generators may cause enough audible noise
to be disturbing to those nearby. Commercially avail-
triggered gaps are generally enclosed. able
Mechanically closed switches: The easiest method
of switching is simply to bring tvo contacts together
mechanically until they are close enough for an arc to
471