4.7 Indirect Effects
if the lightning flash does not directly Even
tact the aircraft's electrical wiring, strikes to the air-
frame are capable of inducing voltage and current
surges in this wiring,
Upset or damage of electrical equipment by these
induced voltages is defined as an indirect effect. Indi-
direct effects be considered along with rect effects must
electrical the vulnerability of aircraft in assessing
as systems. Flight critical systems such electronics
full authority engine control system illustrated in Fig.
4.20 are potentially susceptible to indirect effects,
careful attention must be given to protection design
and verification.
electronics state solid advent of the Until Reports:
in aircraft, indirect effects from external environments
static were and precipitation as lightning such
much of a problem and received relatively little atten-
trou- of however, evidence, increasing is There tion.
blesome indirect effects. Incidents of upset or damage
to avionic or electrical systems are showing up in air-
line lightning strike reports. Table 4.1 summarizes the
reports of interference or outage of avionic or electrical
equipment reported by a group of U.S. airlines for
period 1971 to 1984 [4.22].
Table 4.1 OF INDIRECT EVIDENCE EFFECTS IN
COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT
strikes) (214
Outage Interferenm
let communication HF
communication 27 3 VHF set
S 2 VOR receiver
9 22 Compams (all types)
2 - Marker beacon
Weather radar 3 2
6 system landing instrument 7 6 finder Automstic direction
Radar altimeter 6 -
SpUS flow Fuel 2
I - gauge quantity Fuel
gaugs Engine rpm 4
Engine exhaust temperature gal 2 -
I gauge air temperature Static
Windshield 2 heater -
Flight director computer I -
Navigation light - I
generator tripoff Instances ac (6
of tripoff
Autopilot I-
The incidents reported in Table 4.1 occurred
20% of the total of 851 lightning strike incidents
ported during the period. U.S. military aircraft have

had similar experience. This experience is probably a
result of the increasing sensitivity of miniaturized solid
trend which state electronics to transient voltages, a con-
necessarily would not have posed a problem in older,
less sophisticated equipment. In any one incident, only
a few electronic components are affected; others are
not. Yet lightning induced voltages actually occur in
all aircraft electric wiring at once. Thus it is evident
in some circuits than surges reach higher values that
of are less tolerant others or that some electronics and in
the such surges than others.
and Trends: While indirect effects have not historically
been a major safety hazard, there are four trends in
aircraft design and operations which could increase the
following: the include These problem. potential
1. Increasing use of composite structures in place of
aluminum. not
electronics state solid of miniaturization 2. Further
3. Greater dependence on electronics to perform
flight critical functions
4. Greater congestion in terminal airways, requir-
the ing more frequent flight through adverse weather
conditions at altitudes where lightning strikes fre-
quently occur.
of these One of the consequences Consequences:
trends is that protective measures which in older gen-
eration metal aircraft largely "come for free" must, in
the future, be explicitly provided, usually with an ad-
verse effect on aircraft weight and program cost.
Demarcation line: The demarkation line between di-
in arbitrary somewhat be may effects and indirect rect
a lightning might involve An example instances. some
flash terminating on a wing tip navigation light. In
light to the damage burning or blasting the case, this
fixture would be considered a direct effect of the light-
ning. If the lightning flash were to contact the filament
of the bulb and inject current into the wiring, electri-
cal would be produced ranging from overvoltage effects
b
of to tripping at the socket breakdown of the insulation
remote circuit breakers or upset of equipment; effects
of the resulting surge voltages on the power system.
All of these effects will be considered indirect effects
in this discussion, even though the initiating event was
the direct injection of current into the filament.
Another hypothetical possibility would involve a
lightning flash that passed close to but did not con-
in tact the aircraft. The changing electromagnetic field
re- produced by that flash might upset electronic equip-
ment. The circuit upsets produced by such a flash
84