have occa- other metals though metal is aluminum,
concern. is of major when corrosion been used sionally
com- of the surface exterior on the solidifies metal The
layer and conductive stiff α hard, in resulting posite,
currents or 1Β Zone 1Α of conducting capable which is
and can, metal sprayed The damage. very little with
dam- intensify paint will but the be painted, should,
will coatings Sprayed points. attachment age at strike
smooth- require and may finish rough α somewhat have
into the metal overcome by spraying This can be ing.
are laid in and plies which the composite α mold, after smooth. is finish metal the case this In cured.
metals flame-sprayed arc or of the Advantages
their abil- and strike zones for all protection very good
be difficult would that shapes complex to cover ity
are Disadvantages or foils. meshes wire cover with
metal the sprayed of having difficulty weight and cost,
α mold. from release
thicessclamp diverter - exaggeratedAe
channel
v
δ' V=Λ
developed voltage Inductive 6.34 Fig.
α divertcr. along
small from woven fabrics Metallic fabrics: wire Woven
very can provide or copper of aluminum wires diameter
Quin- surfaces. for non-conductive protection effective
inves- [6.19] King and [6.18], Brick and Kuo livan,
primarily foils metal and fabrics wire woven tigated
ma- (CFC) composite fiber for carbon as protection
the protection to apply findings but their terials,
metal fabrics The as well. composites non-conductive
wires of aluminum are woven applied commonly most
Wire per inch). or 200 cm (100 80 per 40 to spaced
in). - 0.004 mm ((0.002 0.05 to 0.1 range from ameters
commonly screens to filter are identical fabrics These
industries, water processing and chemical in the used

large
fastener diverter
(α)
metal composite
frame
metal
spacer diverter
are
(β) to
metal composite
frame skin
(C)
χ1omposite metal
Sin ge frame
diverters. Methods of grounding 6.35 Fig.
fastener diameter large Single (α)
fastener Single small diameter (β)
with conductive spacer
end over clamp (β) with as Same (χ)
of diverter
over sur- well not drape do wire fabrics Woven
true is especially and this curves with compound faces
and lapped be cut They must fabrics. woven of tightly
α com- in co-cured be fabrics can readily fit. Wire to
the flow around can the resin since laminate posite
be cemented also They can wire strands. individual
care though surface, manufactured α previously onto
of adhesive α film of let much not to taken be should
wires. the build up atop
to co- ability fabrics include of wire Advantages
pro- effective very laminate, composite the with cure
light weight, and flexibility zones, all strike for tection
2 2 of ). Part lbs/ft (0.03 - 0.04 kg/μ - 0.2 0.15 typically of
of the roughness the because comes effectiveness their
They also dispersion. arc root encourages fabrics wire
erosion. against particle protection provide di-
over corn- in draping difficulty is Α disadvantage
be cut to the fabrics may require This curves. pound
fit. to and lapped gores into
144