first to ex. been the have to seem papers These changing rapidly α should include transient The 4.
in impedance question of source the with deal ele- plicitly circuit coupled inductively to excite phase
ments. transient specifications.
Philosophy Level Control Transient 16.6.2 pro- be could one that be should The transient 5.
by relatively to equipment coupled and duced by
ba- the follows 16.13] [16.12, philosophy TCL The equipment. test simple
coor- to transient approach BIL of the sic concepts
to relative specifications targets or in that dination open circuit voltage the with associated Directly
to those who de- should be assigned both transients transient. The short circuit current transient was α
those and boxes") ("black equipment sign electronic flow which would current was that current short circuit
black boxes, interconnect those who design wiring to of which could impedance α source the internal from
The lev- develop by chance. things rather than having 50 Fig. parallel with as 50 fl in be represented yH,
transient coordinator (Pro- by α would be aasigned α set were els taken together as The test waves 16.10(α).
performed to verify be tests would and gram Office) the to those relating were than more consistent thus
that the goals had been met; tests on equipment to Shuttle. Amplitudes of neither current nor volt- Space
and tests withstand the transients that it can verify would be part test levels since the were specified, age
levels had the specified that verify to the aircraft on level specification. control of transient
exceeded. been not of users and readers fGom response to answer In
16.11. Fig. in illustrated is philosophy TCL The the on [16.10] paper Martzloff and original Fisher the
and Fisher, philosophy, Crouch, level control transient
transient _ dif- somewhat α test wave proposed [16.11] Martzloff equipment
wave, voltage The revised one. original ferent from the levels usceptbilty σ
na- the oscillatory emphasized 16.10(β), in Fig. shown I
transient equipment did it, as deemphasizing than rather wave, of the ture
(MTDL) level design to raised was time front The wave. test original the
definedT crest being the wave after the course of 0.5Ups,
kHz and of 100 frequency its oscillatory terms of in
margi of the ratio that by requiring specified decrement the
The voltage 0.6. than be greater successive half-cycles
control transient proposed with that identical became nearly thus wave
Howell. and Martzloff by (TCL) levels
~ transient actual
MHlevels 50
II TRANSIENT
SOURCE iW
(α) EEWiring
Eetni
is Interconnecting Electrical/
Wiring Electronic
Equipment 100V -
6.8 Α -v[ Fig. 16.11 The transient coordination philosophy.
the following: It encompasses .sc
tran- the actual that level: Ensuring transient Actual
source other (or any lightning by level produced sient (β)
the with associated that than less be will of transient)
cable to the assigned number level control transient
be to an- job would designer'σ The cable designer.
lightning would the electromagnetic threat that alyze so0 V
rout- circuit techniques of whatever use to and present
the that to ensure necessary would be or shielding ing TCL proposals. 16.10 Original Fig.
exceed did not by lightning produced transients actual impedance Source (α)
of circuit. type that particular specified for values the current and (β) Voltage
430