exterior interior interior
~~12 II
ι
II
U
dipole
dipole
(α) (β)
Fig. 12.2 Development of equivalent magnetic
field dipole'
(α) Actual magnetic field
(β) Equivalent dipole
Analytically, the problem has two parts; first, to
dipole and second, of the equivalent find the strength
For dipoles. those by produced fields the evaluate to
the analyses to follow, assume an electric and α mag-
retic field to exist on one side of an infinite conducting
sheet containing an elliptical aperture; the geometry
being as shown in Fig. 12.3. Because the surface is
conducting, the electric field must be oriented at right
angles to the surface, along the Z axis in this case. The
magnetic field must be tangential to the surface. While
it could be oriented in any direction in the plane, ξ, υ
it can be resolved into two components, one along the
Ξ axis and one along the Y axis. An elliptical aper-
ture is considered because it is the most general of the
elementary geometries. For this analysis the long axis
of the ellipse will be taken to be along the Ξ axis and
the origin of the axes to be at the center of the ellipse.
From the reverse side of the sheet, Fig. 12.4, there
is seen one equivalent electric field dipole, Π, and two
magnetic field dipoles, Μ, and My, representing the
and υ components of the tangential magnetic field. ξ
The amplitudes of these dipoles are!
21.AoamzHx (12.1) Mx =
2 = poamyHy (12.2) My
= 2eoa.,E, (12.3) Π
where amr, amp and are polarizability α., tensor ele-
ruents whose magnitudes depend on the size and shape
of the aperture. For the elliptical aperture, and follow-
ing the treatment of Taylor [12.6, 12.7]:
7ρ λ3μ
12 (μ) - E(μ) (12.4) μ
EM) 12(μ) _
amp= 12 (12.5) μ(1 Em)
-12K(μ)-E(μ)
336

=_ λ(1 μ) -
E(μ) (12.6)
μ K(μ) elliptic where 1-(12/1)2 = and and E(μ) are
integrals of the first and second kind respectively.
Eqs. 12.4 - 12.6 may also be written as:
α ξ (12.7) I = /13
am Ξ (12.8) =
Ξ Of 11 (12.9)
I where am. , and are as given in Fig. 12.5. α,,
υ
0
.
I.
Fig. 12.3 External electric and magnetic fields
impinging on an aperture.
Since the dipole strength is proportional to the
cube of the length of the major axis of the aperture,
it follows that large apertures will couple much more
energy into an inner volume than will small apertures,
the the strength of the dipole increasing as the cube of
dimensions of the aperture while the area of the aper-
ture increases only as the square of the dimensions.
Using the dipole along the Ξ axis, Μ., as an ex-
ample,the pattern of the magnetic fields in the interior
region will be concentric closed loops lying in planes
passed through the Ξ axis, Fig. 12.6. At any point Π,
the total magnetic field can be represented as α vector
normal to the radius vector ρ between the dipole and
Π and lying in the plane defined by point Π and the
Ξ axis.
, 0