by which α flammable fuel vapor can be exposed to
the outside of an aircraft, α considerable amount of
research has been undertaken to evaluate the possibil-
_'__
ities of lightning ignition of fuel vent vapors. (Α) airflow
1000 ....... ................... ........................ ..........
1000 ι(Β) airflow
Σ10000
1,o ι, ....... ..... ...
10 Fig. 7.6 Three general classes of fuel vent exits.
. .. Σ (α,β) Mast or extended outlets
. .. (χ) Flush vent outlet
0.1ε 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10 100 1000 The study showed that α vent discharging into α
Time. millieeconds free air stream provides the greatest dilution of fuel
vapor and thus has the smallest flammable region of
Fig. 7.5 Ignition current versus pulse duration. the vent configurations tested, but it also showed that
flammable mixtures could exist in the immediate vicin-
ity of each type of vent outlet.
7.3.1 Review of Buic Studies
Dilution profiles: Α typical mixture concentration
Lockheed study: One of the first fuel vent studies profile of the area aft of α flush vent outlet is shown in
was that of the Lockheed-California Company and the Fig. 7.7. [7.12] Dilution of the original effluent by air
Lightning and Transients Research Institute in 1963 to 30% or less of the initial concentration might well
Sfor the National Aeronautics and Space Administra- lean it out of the flammability envelope, depending on
tion [7.10]. In that program, fuel-air concentrations in its original fuel-air concentration. Thus, dilution to α
the vicinity of aircraft vent outlets of several configura- nonflammable mixture probably occurs at α distance
tions were measured and mapped under various condi- of one vent diameter or more from the vent outlet.
tions of tank vapor fuel-air ratio and effluent velocity. This finding suggests that α lightning strike or associ-
The tests were performed in α wind tunnel producing ated streamer must occur very near to the edge of α
an airflow of up to 100 knots. Mast vents discharged vent outlet for an ignition to occur.
into wakes and into free air streams were tested, as
well flush as vents discharging into boundary layers,
as shown in Fig. 7.6 [7.11].
Σ Longitudinal Distance - Vent Diamestm
I•io τ I " '- I 1
α-ε Perceatag laiUal eo Coneatratioa
Fig. 7.7 Typical profile of vent effluent in air stream aft of α flush vent outlet.
 Profiles vary according to boundary layer thickness and velocities efflue of -
and air stream
Boundary layer thickness 0.50 vent diameters =
 Vent exit velocity 0.1 ξ free stream velocity - -
175