SRd
(14.5) ,χ
while for lightning current of short duration the wire
current is
I., (14.6) = Vocdt
-
where
- amperes I
self-inductance of wire or cable - H = Λ
open circuit induced voltage V - = V0,
τ time-σ α =
Multiple conductors: If there are several conductors
in α bundle, all of the conductors will be subjected
the same open circuit voltage and short circuit current,
Wire shields: shield Α on the wire, if it is grounded
only one end, Fig. 14.5(α), will not reduce the voltage
or current to which the wire is subjected. If the shield
is grounded at each end, as indicated in Fig. 14.5(β),
it will reduce the voltage or current, but the degree
of reduction will depend primarily on the resistance of
the shield, as compared to the resistance of the aircraft
and the resistance of the wire.
ci14.3.2
aThe R
I (α) Λ -
(β) Λ Rfollow,
,α
Fig. 14.5 Effects of α shield.
(α) Grounded at one end
(β) Grounded at both ends
(χ) Equivalent circuit

Example: The geometry shown on Fig. 14.6(α) is
somewhat representative of α conductor used for dis-
tribution of aircraft power. For the indicated lightning
current, and are as shown on Fig. 14.6(δ) and I., V χ
0
(ε). The point of most importance is that the short cir-
cuit current is controlled more by the wire inductance
than its resistance and reaches its peak long after the
aircraft current has begun to decay.
Source impedance: Strictly speaking, source imped-
ance would be found by taking the instantaneous val-
ues of voltage and current,
(14.7) .
and would be α quantity that was time or frequency
dependent. Often however, the ratio of peak values of
to open circuit voltage and short circuit current is takcn
to be the source impedance and, for the above exam-
ple, is 0.32 ohms. The quantity is α useful measure of
at the impedance of the circuit, but should be used with
caution since it pertains only to the one waveshape of
driving current.
The illustration of Fig. 14.6 is somewhat oversim-
plified, but it does illustrate the point that source im-
pedance for resistively generated voltages is quite low,
about the same as the resistance of the wire. This low
source impedance is an important point that must be
considered when applying surge protective devices, as
discussed further in Chapter 16.
Response to Magnetic Fields
14.7(α), consider, Fig. to geometry simplest
sur- adjacent to α metal placed is that of α conductor
face and exposed to α uniform magnetic field oriented
to produce maximum voltage in wiring. Single conduc-
tors are rarely found in an aircraft; more commonly
conductors are part of α bundle of wires, or one of the
wires in α multi-conductor cable. For the analyses to
the effects will be about the same for α single
wire or for α group of wires comprising α cable or bun-
dle. If the cable is fitted with α shield, the shield can
be treated just as another conductor.
Open circuit voltage: The open circuit induced volt-
age between the wire and ground, or the common mode
voltage of wires in α cable, will be
!- = (48 Vd = HA H Α
= =1
where
375