4 CHAPTER.
EFFECTS LIGHTNING
Isle, from Presque taken off just had We
cruise power and had been in Maine, for 50
a large thunderhead cumulus minutes, when
Lightning course. on directly was observed
inside and around could be seen the edges the
on and were thunderhead. lights All cockpit
full on, with the the instrument spotlight was
the open. I had just finished setting door
As engine. power and fuel for each flows
there the thunderhead, approached the ship
in horsepower and the was a noticeable drop
airplane lost from 168 180 MPH airspeed to
airspeed due to and continued to lose MPH,
the thunder- power as we approached loss
lightning bolt head... A few seconds before the
airplane all four engines were silent hit the
were windmilling. Simul- and the propellers
the en- taneous with lightning, the flash of
surged with the original power. gines The
Captain and me lightning flash blinded the
unable to see for so severely that we were
tried several approximately eight minutes. I
cockpit in- times during this interval to read
was impossible. The struments but it First
was called from the rear to the watch Officer
air currents in- course, turbulent cockpit. Of
around to cumulus tossed the ship side the
the airplane not such an extent that, had
occurred been on auto-pilot when the flash
by the during the interval of blindness and
could have easily cockpit occupants, the ship
out Captain gone completely of control. The
the reason for all four engines and discussed I
lightning cutting simultaneously prior to the
and could not explain it, the except for flash
potential around the a magnetic possibility of
secondary cumulus affecting the primary or
same time. circuit of eight magnetos at the all
on a flight First Officer Pierson's experience N.A.
Isle, Maine, to the Santa Maria Islands from Presque
on July 1945 [4.1]. 9,
4.1 Introduction
beginning of powered wasn't long after the It
lightning- that aircraft began being struck by flight
Early wooden sometimes with catastrophic iesults.

AIRCRAFT ON
were wires and guy cables control aircraft with metal
of currents conducting lightning stroke capable of not
more. Wooden members thousand amperes or several
caught fire. or cables exploded control even the and
occur, pilots did not damage Even if severe structural
lightning cur- or burned by shocked were frequently
pedals their hands or feet via control rents entering
fuel tanks caught fire or ex- or the stick. Sometimes
with the air turbulence ploded. These effects, coupled
with thunderstorms, also associated precipitation and
weather. to stay clear of stormy quickly taught pilots
all-metal aircraft, research: With the advent of Early
but effects were eliminated, most of the catastrophic
to be treated with respect. thunderstorms continued
attributed to Nonetheless, because a few bad accidents
in 1938 the Sub- lightning strikes continued to happen,
Safety, Weather and Lightning committee of Aircraft
National Advisory Corn- Experts was formed by the
ef- Aeronautics (NACA) to study lightning mittee for
aircraft and determine what additional protec- fects on
needed. Dr. Karl B. McEachron, tive measures were
at the General Electric High Volt- Director of Research
of this commit- was a key member age Laboratory,
he performed tee, Pand during its twelve year existence
made lightning tests on aircraft parts. the first man
other organiza- and subsequent to this period, During
such as the U.S. National Bureau of Standards, tions,
and the Lightning and the University of Minnesota,
to conduct Research Institute, also began Transients
effects on aircraft. research into lightning
Direct effects: For a long time the physical damage
the air- the point of flash attachment to effects at
concern. These included holes craft were of primary
or splintering of in metallic skins, puncturing burned
of and welding or roughening nonmetallic structures,
If the attachment point moveable hinges and bearings.
the possibility of con- was a wing tip light or antenna,
the the lightning current directly into ducting some of
also of concern. Today. aircraft's electrical circuits was
called the and other physical damage effects are these
military and commer- Since present day direct effects.
Rules) in many cial aircraft fly IFR (Instrument Flight
measures against direct ef- kinds of weather, protective
into these designed and incorporated fects have been
consequences of lightning aircraft so that hazardous
are strikes rare.
69