.that
Fig. 6.10, in as illustrated sutfac and found, these
and the cal- forces the calculated of the directions
the well with correlate Fig. 6.10(χ), damage, culated
de- and (β) give 6.10(α) Figs. damage pattern. actual
were the calculations geometry on which of the tails
based.
have would kA stroke tij α 100 calculated Hacker τ
path α 4 cm wide lb/ft.) on (1476 21 500 N/μ created
 2 , or This amounts to 5.4 ξ N/μ 105 across the skins.
for α pressure high compressive an extremely 78 psi,
state for α steady designed reportedly structure wing
reader is psi). The (0.25 ξ 103 N/mr of 1.7 loading
discus- α more thorough report for Hacker'σ referred to
this analysis. in making followed procedure sion of the
XI12sm5ρ.
Amajor
(α)
-2.40 ,,LIGHTNINGPATH \
Ξ E
.. R FE _NLINE
. Α
.6 (β) 0 1
E Β
(χ) Α
magnetic deformation. Calculation of Fig. 6.10
at tip (α) Geometry
,.,. chord (β) Geometry
deformation (χ) Calculated
have illus- examples foregoing The Repulsive Forces:
at- are forces magnetic the in which case the trated
are in the currents the parallel is, when tractive; that
currents where exist, however, Cases same direction.
same legs of the in adjacent or adjacent conductors, in
this hap- When directions. in opposite conductor, are
the conduc- to separate force acts magnetic pens, the
α problem. may create fact that α tors,
chan- that α lightning the force example is An
ground on metal as α radome alongside nel sweeping
tube, fas- grounding heater such as α pitot conductors,
situation wall. This radome of the inside to the tened
Σ often severe result is The 6.11(α). in Fig. illustrated is
wall, as the radome tube and grounding to the damage
the wall. from is ripped away tube
127

seg- by using might be reduced problem This
to reat- the flash allow diverters. They might mented
as il- effects, magnetic force minimizing sooner, tach
Fig. 6.11(β). in lustrated
ad- to verify be tested designs should Protection
de- readily are not force effects magnetic equacy, as
ar- be should Test specimens analysis. by termined
the lightning action of sweeping simulate the ranged to
the high current test electrode channel, by positioning
channel. α sweeping if it were as the radome, along
is pre- of testing aspects of these discussion Further
§6.8. sented in
common Another straps: on bond forces Magnetic
in oppo- which the currents in of α situation example
the bent is forces to repulsive give rise site directions
strap has 6.12(α). Even if the Fig. shown in bond strap
current, conduct the sufficient to cross-sectional area α
it may 45 degrees, than about bend of more forms α but
to subjected is if it Fi.8.12(α), in shown as break,
Whenever possi- stroke current. the of portions
bends, gentle with be installed should straps such ble,
Fig. 6.12(β). as in
Another the bond strap as reason for keeping
straight and short as possible is that the inductive volt-
age rise caused by lightning currents in α longer strap
path shorter over α direct, to spark be sufficient may
and "don'ts" "do'σ" Some other air gap. across the
carry intended to bond straps design of the regarding
ba- The Fig. 6.13. in presented are currents lightning
are: to follow sic rules
area cross-sectional with sufficient Use conductors 1.
current action in- intended lightning to carry the
tegral.
short as possible. straps as Keep bond 2.
3. Avoid bends of more than 45 degrees, or other
of the current that result in α reversal features
direction.
all turns. sharp Avoid 4.
separate straps axe used, parallel two or more If 5.
min- more) to 30 cm or (usually them sufficiently
force effects. magnetic imize
followed for be of course, rules should, The above
tube metal air such as α weight conductor, any light
current. must carry lightning that line or hydraulic
to verify be tested should installations Flight critical
adequacy. design
of Because damage: of magnetic Consequences
some rigidity of and the strength limitations, weight
and tips, flaps, as wing such metallic components,