tdons be de. must airplane multleiglne of a
hazards signed to prevent to the airplane In
ths event of a probable malfunction or fallise.
and installa- systems, The equipment, (a)
tions of a single-engine airplane must be da.
signed to minimize hazards to airplune, oe t
Requirements FAA Other 5.2.4
Recognizing the increasing role of electronic con-
trols in operation of the aircraft, the FAA initiated
rule-making project to add a FAR dealing specifically
with lightning protection of flight critical and flight es-
sential electrical and avionic systems and equipment.
When adopted, this regulation will require that these
systems and equipment continue to perform their in-
tended functions; that is, remain operational, following
an in-flight lightning strike. The requirement will thus
further strengthen and apply the requirements of FAR
to lightning 25.1309 protection. It is anticipated that
this regulation will first appear in Part 25 and shortly
afterwards appear in modified form for the other cat-
egories of airplanes and rotorcraft.
Users of this handbook should ascertain the sta-
tus of these new regulations and become familiar with
Scompanion Methodology for compli- their use and applicability.
ance with these new regulations will be presented in
FAA Advisory Circular, which has been
published in draft form by SAE Committee AE4L
(5.4]. The guidelines in that reference have already
been utilized for certification of full authority elec-
tronic flight and engine control systems.
The steps which may be followed to comply with
the new regultion are described in [5.4] and repeated
in §5.6 of this handbook.
Lightning Protection Aircraft Other 5.3
Requireme•ut•
The US Department of Defense (DOD) has pro-
mulgated requirements for lightning protection of mil-
basic requirements The rotorcraft. and aircraft itary
states which [5.5], Standard DOD is document 175
the functional lightning protection requirements for
"aerospace vehicle" purchased by DOD agencies, such
as US Air Force, US Army and US Navy. The term
aerospace vehicle" rders to fixed wing aircraft, rotor.
craft and missile "systems". well an us to major sys-
weapons. fuel tanks and engines, external as such tems
. DOD 17051 Standard DOD wvr im- StAadkrd 1 5
plemented in 1980, foilowing man years of reliance
upon which 15.11, focused primarily on MIL-B-5087B
electrical bonding and which has been proven to be
inadequate for liShtning protection. aircraft DOD de-

of the requirements to subject are 1986 after signed
STD which are more comprehensive than DOD 1795,
those of MIL-B-5087B.
Military Standard 1757: The lightning environment
for design and verification test purposes of DOD air-
craft is defined in Standard 1757 [5.6]. US Military
de- as environment lightning same the incorporates It
aircraft. civil for [5.4] and [5.2] fined in
Certain DOD aircraft are subject to the FAA
a FAR's as well as to the DOD requirements. These
include military transport and cargo aircraft which oc-
casionally operate from civil airports and fly extended
distances along civilian airways. Often these are air.
frames that have previously been certified in accor-
dance with the FAA FAR's. Examples include the
USAF KC-10A KC-135 (DC-10), (B-707) and ftC-12
(Beech King Air, Model 200).
Fighters and bombers: Fighter and bomber type air-
craft generally do not have to meet the FAA certifica
tion requirements.
Foreign aircraft and JAR's: Aircraft of non-US man-
ufacture are usually certified by appropriate agencies
aircraft must of the country of origin, although these
a also meet US FAR's if they are to be operated in the
USA. The converse is true for US manufactured air-
craft which are to operate in other countries. Compli-
ance with the various requirements is facilitated by bi-
lateral agreements among nations, and by use of Joint
Airworthiness Requirements (JAR's), mutually agreed
upon by participating nations,
The lightning protection requirements are sLnilar
all in sets of regulations, although the applicability and
degree of enforcement has varied somewhat. There is
aircraft lightning among high degree of cooperation a
progr-ss and further worldwide specialists protection.
in international standardization of lightning protection
requirements and standards is likely to occur.
Protection Lightning Summary of FAA 5.4
Requirmnts
The basic requirement is that:
the cats- aircrAft must be protected against
trophic effects of lightni•t,
companion docu- and the stated in as 25.581 FAR
ments. This applies to the airframe, plus all the of
systems and components necessary to allow the air-
craft to continue flight safe landing, as wad stated in
FAR 25.1309.
Other existing and proposed regulations focus at-
tention on systems of specific importance, including
93