(a) Femntiat londs after failure of...
(i) Any eae engine on two- or thrve:
engino nirglanre: and
(ii) Any two engine om four- or
nore- engine airplanea.
(4) Emeutinl londs for which an atter.
nate munr of puower is rruired by thix
chapser. nfter any fniluro or munlfunetion in
any eme pmwer supply system, distribution
aystem. or otier utilixation system.
(t) In determiniog commplintce with sub.
paragraphs (e) (3) and (i) of this rertion,
ihe tmower lomds mny bm asmmed to be reducet
mmier a muomitoring preedure cumsistent witle
anfety in Ihe kinds of operation nutborizert.
Lands ant roquirel in controlled flight nert
not le comsidered for the two-engine-inoperu.
tivo comdition on nirplanes with four or more
engix.
(g) in showing cmplianco with parn.
graphn (n) and (i.) of this sstion with regnrt
in the riertrient system and equipuent derign
and instatlation, rriticat euvirommental con
dlitions unxt Ia considered. For clectrical
geueration, dtistritation, and utilixation equip-
ment roquired liy or uxod in complying with
this chajuer, exeept equipment corerad by
Technicat Stamdared Orlers containing en-
vitomorntal tent preeelurea, tie ability to
provido comtinmns, sfo xorvice under soro.
reable envirommental conditions may be shown
by envirommental tents, design annlyaia, or
reference to previons comparable servica ex-
perience on other airccaft.
Since FAR 25.1309 makes no specific mention of
lightning as a "foresceable operating condition," this
regulation has sometimes not been applied with re-
spect to lightning protoction. The occurrence of light-
ning strikes to aircraft is, however, today a widely roc-
-uι σ! uoenar 2 οu uotpuoo 2uedo, pzo
dad applicable. The important language is found in
paragraphs (a) through (d) and (g). The requirements
of paragraphs (e) and (f) deal more specifically with
propulsion system failures.
Mukipie hazarde: FAR 25.1309 introduces the re-
quirement for protection against any system failure
that would prevent the "continued safe fight and land-
ing" of the sircraft and that a failure condition must
be made "extremely improbable". Likewise, the oc-
currence of otber conditions which would "reduce the
capability of the airplane or the ability of the crew to
cope with adverse operating conditons" must be made
improbable. This part of the regulation is very impor-
nnd fυw σ ss Α ε
occur along with otber sdverse environmental condi-
tions, such as icing. precipitation, turbulence. Taken
together with the poasible effects of lightning on flight

essential systems such as propulsion, electric power,
airframe, fight control and navigation systems, all of
which must perform satisfactorily, there may be mul-
tiple effects which may increase pilot work load and
reduce the ability of the airplane or crew to continue
safe fight.
The focus of this regulation on protection against
multiple environments and hazards is perhaps its most
important aspect.
25.1309 are discussed further in an Advisory Circu-
lar [5.3] which defines "highly improbable" as no more
than once in 1 000 000 000 (10º) Aight hours. The fig-
r ee
of occurrence," or 10-° events per hour.
Calculation of numerical probabilities of occur-
rence of a certain lightning hazard, or of the failure of
a specific protection design, has rarely been attemped
because of the difficulty of assigning numerical factors
to a large number of poesible lightning environment.
parameters and modes of interaction between lightning
and the aircraft. A simple multiplication of probabil-
ities, such as lightning current exceeding a tolerance
level, or of lightning striking a particularly vulnera-
ble location, or of fuel vapor being in a flammable
condition can, if a sufficient number of factors is in-
cluded, yield a very low probability of occurrence of a
certain hazard. It can also lead, sometimes, to a con-
clusion that the 10-° requirement has been met, and
that there is no need to consider protection.
Such an approach is misleading and should not
be accepted as evidence of compliance with the FAR
25.1309 requirement of adequate protection of fight
critical or fight essential systems!
General aviation and rotorcraft: The requirements of
FAR 25.1309 are not mirrored in the other Federal Avi-
ation Requirements which address general aviation air-
craft and rotorcraft. FAR 23.1309, reproduced below,
is narrower in scope than FAR 25.1309 and thus does
not address "any foresceable operating conditions" and
cannot be considered a lightning protection roquire-
ment.
Squipment, systome, ond instolla
Nome.
(a) Kach itam of equipment, when par-
voreely afect--
(1) The response, operation, or socuraoy
of any equipment cmential to safe operation ;
or
(8) The reeponse, operation, or socuracy
of any other equiqunent unloms thero is
means to inform tihe pilot of the affect.
(b) The oquipmont, ayotama, and installa-
92