Hn
1.11*Αý 1. AH
20 78 20 F;F
VPF
pF
H 1 (α)
"τ "" -
0) Z - 142 Z = 142
: 2.5μ I (8.2ft) 1 2.5μ =
(8.2ft) (β)
Δ run for impedance Equivalent 14.31 Fig.
CThe in zone
lne (α)rain
line (α) Transmission constant Lumped (β)
the cable will these illustrations For End impedances:
impedance α low through grounded to be be assumed
to be con- cargo bay in the and in the cockpit (1 ohm)
shunted 500 pF capacitor α through to ground nected
calculation of open cir- for 100 kilohms α resistor, by
short circuit of calculation 1 ohm for and voltage cuit
im- terminal the calculation In any actual capacitance.
inspection by be determined have to would pedances
by measurements supplemented perhaps the circuiIt, of
capacitance. of stray
equivalent Complete representations Two circuits:
showing 14.32 Fig. shown; are circuit complete of the
Fig. lines and on transmission based α representation
Each constants. on lumped based one showing 14.33
and but only sources, equivalent four shows them HA
being and Hc calculations, in the used were EA H 6
affecting not greatly perhaps, and, magnitude small of
circuit. of the response the
also 14.33 and 14.32 Figs. Calculated response:
cal- current of the magnitude and waveshape show the
cockpit the in grounded end the at to exist culated
open end at the to exist calculated and the voltage
oscillatory, is the responses bay. Each of the cargo in
air- in actual circuits for real case the is generally as
elec- changing by is excited response the craft, where
the grounded at current The fields. magnetic and tric
components superimposed frequency higher shows end
At the oscillation. fundamental frequency on α lower
oscil- higher frequency the bay cargo the in end open
capacitor. shunt pF 500 the by out filtered are lations
will intermediate points curreats at and Voltages
filtered components frequency high not to have tend
exam- as an Fig. 14.34, capacitance. out by terminal
runs of cable at the junction the voltage ple, shows
Δ. and

short circuit current calcu- the 14.35 shows Fig.
lated when the cable is grounded through α low imped-
As predicted bay. in the cargo the end ohm, at 1 ance,
oscillatory is less current the theory, elementary by
circuit voltage. than the open
made with were above calculations The Discussion:
bit desk- using α 16 and in [14.8] described program the
top computer running Et 8 MHz clock speed. Solution
minutes. was α few time steps 1000 to 5000 time for
compare solution time has been made to No attempt
on programs circuit analysis with other or accuracy
systems. computer other
differences significant no show calculations
line or transmission made using the results between
constant representations. lumped
of and Limitations Extensions 14.6.3
Modeling
of are probably circuits above equivalent The
should that complexity degree of the minimum about
actual are to have calculations results of if the be used
modeling should include More sophisticated utility.
between for coupling circuit, in the for losses provision
for treat- and conductors, and different cable systems
conductors between propagation of multi-mode ment
bundle. in α cable
no 14.33 and 14.32 of Figs. circuits the In Losses:
circuit, of the losses the model to made was attempt
os- circuits the to which the degree that reduce losses
losses these to order approximation Α first cillate. of
the cir- in resistance series by including be made could
provided option the resistive by invoking either cuit,
by includ- lines or transmission for [14.8] [14.5] and by
of inductors with the series in resistances ing lumped
frequency are very actual circuits Losses in Fig. 14.33.
analy- in circuit to incorporate and difficult dependent
done been has work considerable though programs, sis
- 14.12]. [14.10 so of doing methods on
of cou- Many problems coupling: Circuit-to-circuit
by mod- be done can probably circuits between pling
be- capacitance mutual and impedance mutual eling
in calculat- the considerations of Some circuits. tween
circuit all Almost in [14.9]. coupling are given the ing
an al- as inductors mutual programs include analysis
provi- include them of Some element. circuit lowable
lines. transmission coupled for sion
of Realistic calculation propagation: Multi-mode
coupled conductors closely on and curremts voltages
conductors between waves that requires recognition C
prop- than waves slower at speeds propagate generally
391