.
CHAPTER 7
SYSTEM FUEL
Introduction 7.1
The design of adequate lightning protection for
light- important mo.it the uf one is systems fuel aircraft
ping protection tasks to be accomplished. Government
airworthiness cerification requirements stress fuel sys-
for responsible system has been this because safety tem
accidents. aircraft lightning-related most
spread are typically system the fuel of Elements
throughout much of an aircraft and occupy α signif-
icant amount of its volume They include the fuel
tanks themselves, associated vent and transfer plumb-
ing, and electrical controls and instrumentation. Core-
ful attention must be pai to ali of these elements if 1
adequate protection is to be obtained.
The main objective of fuel system lightning pro-
tection is to keep ignition of fuel from destroying the
aircraft iluring α strike. This goal is quite challeng-
ing because thousands of amperes of current must be
transferred through the airframe when the aircraft is
one than of less spark α tiny and by lightning struck
ampere may release sufficient energy inside α fuel tank
and initiate an explosion. to ignite the fuel vapor
Prevention of fuel ignition hazards from lightning
by one or more of the following must be accomplished
approaches:
1. Containment: 'Designing the structure to be
capable of containing the resulting overpressure
without rupture.
2. Inerting: Controlling the atmosphere in the fuel
system to ensure that it cannot support combus-
tion.
Foaming: Filling 3. the fuel systems with α mate-
rial that prevents α flame from propagating.
4. Eliminating ignition sources. Designmug the
structure so that lightning does not produce any
ignition sources,
The following paragraphs discuss all of these
of preventing fuel system hazards. Several methods
to fuels and the mechanism important studies relating
of ignition are reviewed and guidelines for effective pro-
tection of fuel systems are then presented.
lightning simulated involving Laboratory studies
or portions of an airframe contain- strikes to fuel tanks
ing fuel tanks have demonstrated several possible ig-
of the accidents in- Investigations nition mechanisms.
raised other haw- fires explosior and fuel tank volving
171

PROTECTION
possibilities. Possible ignition sources can be divided
into the following two broad categories, thermal and
electrical.
Thermal ignition sources
com- or of metal surfaces interior the spots on Hot 1.
attachment lightning to due tank skins, fuel posite
exerior surfaces. to
2. Hot parts, such as electrical wires, ground braids
or tubes, raised to elevated temperatures by high
densities of lightning currents on these parts.
For hot spots to ignite fuel vapor, their tempera-
ture must usually exceed 8000C or 15000 F for α pe-
riod of one second or more. Some metals, such alu- as
minum, will melt through before the interior surface
reaches the ignition point of the fuel.
ignition sources Electrical
between conductive elements iso- 1. Electrical sparks
lated from each other, due to potential differences
lightning currents in the airframe, or arising from
fields. from changing magnetic
2. Electrical arcs, the ejection of molten and/or
burning material due to current passing between
conductive elements in contact with each other
when the current density exceeds the current car-
rying capability of the contact points.
Arcing and sparking within the fuel vapor space
of α fuel tank is one of the primary concerns of the fuel
tank protection designer. The distinction between arc-
ing and sparking is worth reviewing. Arcing is the re-
sult of current through the interface between two con-
ducting materials which are making limited electrical
contact. Such α condition may exist at the interface
of α fastener with structure, as at an access door, or
as α spar and between two structural components such
spark, on the other hand, is an electrical dis- rib. Α
charge resulting from α difference of potential across an
air gap or along α dielectric material. This condition
elements structural when two for example, may exist,
other such α spar and wing as isolated from each are
skin which are bonded together an electrically non- by
tank may Current through the conductive adhesive.
these struc- between of potential in difference result -τ