8.26 shows a statistical distribution: Fig. Statistical
in of currents amplitude peak of the distribution
were measurements which bundles upon of the cable
actual for both the is shown distribution made. The
aircraft and into the injected current amplitudes
if the results would be those currents terms of what
of actual representative scaled up to currents were
of an average-amplitude In terms flashes. lightning
most the total current on flash, 30 000 A, lightning
of 20 bundles would have been on the order cable
100 A.
current are impor- Measurements of bulk cable
in common now of the test practices because one tant
voltages and current use for evaluating the effect of
involves coupling current onto induced by lightning
(usually through a transformer) and wiring assembly
and current on individual wires allowing the voltages
develop as appropriate to the impedances of the cir- to
of injecting cuits to which they connect. The technique
in Chapter 18. cables is discussed current onto
'3
, . . . . . .
. 1 t,,Also, S in to s.o
ezf - -- • • M . no Mw 14 O
oJANMMAKPIAE3
of cable Fig. 8.26 Distribution of amplitudes
currents (measured in left gun bay). bundle
am- made of the were fields: Measurements Magnetic
at a num- of the magnetic field and waveshape plitude
the aircraft. One loca- ber of points in and around
was concentrated was the tion upon which attention
the cockpit is an inherently unshielded cockpit, since
wires would be region and one in which many control
changing magnetic fields. subjected to

were measured, the at which fields The positions
ori- the predominant and of the fields, amplitude peak all
The 8.27. Fig. shown in are the fields of entation
had a probe which with fields were measured magnetic
4 ps. When of about time constant in a characteristic
less than 4 in times fields changing exposed to ps,
of the to the absolute magnitude it would respond
fields changing to when exposed intensity, and, field
respond to the rate than 4 ps, it would in times longer
field. to of change of the magnetic
4.5 A,-
a
42A
4D
cockpit. Fig. Magnetic field measurements in the 8.27
A few typical measurements of field wave&ohape 6
The most significant feature are shown in Fig. 8.28.
about these measurements is that there was no orien-
of the magnetic field probe that resulted in a tation
zero output, which indicated that the orientation of
.field was not uniform with respect to the magnetic
was the time. The field produced at any one point
flow of current field produced by the total sum of the
the aircraft and that produced by oscillatory through
cur- in the various structural members as the current
with time. members changed in those structural rent
When fields of high frequency are produced by oscilla- an original transient field, the tory currents excited by
process is commonly called re-radiation.
waveshape of the it was noticed that the
field was quite oscillatory whenever the peak magnetic
com- of the field was low. This is a pattern magnitude
found. It occurs because the low level mag- monly
partially shielded structures netic fields found within
by circulat- are due either to re-radiation produced
will or by coupling through apertures. As ing currents
be noted in Chapter 12, coupling through apertures is
high fre- (or the high frequencies dependent, frequency
waveforms) being coupled portions of transient quency
low frequencies. more effectively than
field within Some measurements of the magnetic
the gun bay housing the backup control system and the
are shown in Fig. 8.29. interface electronics package
com- inside the gun bay the magnetic field Clearly,
238