Present airborne weather displays use Color radar: have been based on the principle of detecting the am-
colors to distinguish between different intensities of bient electric field which would exist when α lightning
boundaries between bands of different color are the ment instruments have been successfully tested in an
colors mentioned above. Α typical color weather radar aircraft, and because of the apparent wide variation
display is shown in in Fig. 3.11 [3.12]. of electric field intensities and other conditions which
Α decaying thunderstorm, moreover, may not may precede α lightning strike to the aircraft, success
present α distinctive radar echo. Sometimes this type seems remote. The situation is further complicated
of storm becomes embedded in expanding anvils or by the problems of field interpretation and translation
cirrus clouds in such α way that it is not visible. In- into advisory information in sufficient time to aid the
flight measurements conducted by the Air Force and pilot in deciding on an avoidance maneuver.
the Federal Aviation Administration, and reported by There are instruments that locate and plot the
Fitzgerald [3.13], indicate that thunderstorms in their locations of lightning flashes that are taking place, but
early stages of dissipation have sufficient charge to that is α different story.
cause α few lightning discharges if α means of streamer Perhaps the most effective warning of imminent
initiation becomes available. An aircraft entering such strikes available to flight crews is that which is read-
α region may initiate, or trigger, such α flash. Thus, ily available-the buildup of static discharging and (at
in normal IFR operations in regions where an active night) St. Elmo'σ Fire (corona). Static discharging
thundercloud is merged with decaying thunderclouds causes interference (instability) in Low Frequency Au-
and other cloudy areas, diverting from the normal tomatic Direction Finding (LF-ADF) indicators, or
course to avoid the active cloud may take the flight audible "hash" in most communications receivers. St.
through α decaying area, where α lightning strike is Elmo'σ fire is visible at night as α bluish glow at air-
possible, craft extremities where the discharging is occurring.
Pilot responses to lightning strikes (which may
Lightning warning instruments: Attempts have been also be called static discharges or electrical discharges)
made from time to time to develop an airborne instru- vary. Typical answers by pilots of one airline [3.9] to
meat capable of warning pilots of an impending light- the question "Do you have any recommendations for
ning strike to the aircraft and providing information avoiding electrical discharges?" were as follows:
to the pilot for use in avoidance. Most such attempts
IIFC. East-west distance from ν. ml.
.40 .20 .10 -45 -35 -30 -25 -15 -5
-j
10.• Nearby flash Σ aod
recorded trensient
*o 7 60. -4 -20 . . .-o0 .Io
arc. α. distance from Eent-wmest
Fig. 3.11 Reflectivity contours at time of α strike near to the F 10GB.
Flash 4, 20:54:21.9 GMT, Jluly 22,1980.
Taken by NASA-Wallops SPANDAR radar at 20:56:51.5 GMT
with α radar tilt angle 0°C. =
48