Thunderstorm days: For many years, weather bureau The count of thunderstorm days includes both
stations have recorded thunderstorm days (the num- flashes between clouds and flashes to ground. There is
ber of days per year on which thunder is heard). This some evidence that the proportion of flashes that go
index, called the isokeraunic level, is shown for the to grouned is related to the geographical latitude of the
continental United States in Fig. 2.41 [2.28]. Similar point under study. This relation would exist because
data for the world as α whole is shown on Fig. 2.42 the proportion of flashes to ground depends partly on
[2.29]. It should be noted that the information so col- the average height of clouds, and this, in turn, depends
lected is of limited value for several reasons. First of on the type of storm formation. Pierce takes that fac-
all, no distinction is made between cloud- to-cloud dis- tor into account in his discussion of the relationship
charges and cloud-to-ground flashes. Also, there is no between ground flash density and thunderstorm days.
allowance for the duration of α storm. Α storm lasting
an hour would be counted as heavily as one lasting Flash counters: Α better measure of lightning fre-
several hours. quency would be based on counts of actual lightning
Α better indicator of lightning frequency would be flashes, as opposed to counts of thunder. Instruments
thunderstorm hours per year. Some weather bureau are available to make such counts.
records are now being made of thunderstorm hours, One relatively simple type [2.30] detects the elec-
but not much data has been accumulated. tric field changes produced by lightning and records
on an electromechanical counter the number of times
Flash density: Despite its limitations, the data on the field change exceeds α threshold value. By suitable
isokeraunic levels is broadly useful and can be corre- choice of filters defining the frequencies to which the
lated at least partially with lightning strokes to earth- device is sensitive it can be made to respond to flashes
based objects. Pierce [2.27) has summarized some of within α certain range, generally on the order of 30
the available data and concludes that if there are 25 km. They can also be made to respond primarily to
thunderstorm days per year that there will be about cloud to ground flashes and to reject field changes as-
2 4 flashes to earth per year per km . The ground flash sociated with cloud to cloud flashes. Networks of such
rate is is not directly proportional to the isokeraunic instruments have been deployed in South Africa and
level; it varies more as the square of the isokeraunic parts of Europe, but no systematic use has been made
level. Anderson and Ericksson [2.24] also discuss the of them in the USA.
relationship between ground flash density and thun-
derstorm days.
210
: ) .........-- - -. -- ----
,..-, -. 20 -- -- - -
. oos 1 1 40 { __~6 .......... σ ....
:/ 70.. ",0'
:--'' .. ...... +' .. .. .. ........ '+
'400 Fig 2.1Tudrtr α (skrii ee) withi the otiena Un"δ Sate
Fi.24 hnesomdy Ioene Leel wihi θ cninental Unte States
3066
36