Unlike laminates. thin CFC may crack shock wave this
which are ductile and will de- most aluminum alloys,
are stiff and may form, but not break, CFC materials
back sides of two test shatter. Fig. 4.13 shows the
panels, one of aluminum and one of unprotected CFC,
both of which had been subjected to the same simu-
lated lightning test. The metal panel was only dented,
but the CFC panel was badly broken.
AFTER OYU
__
BEFOiRE
current stroke Typical lightning 4.12 Fig.
material, skin to CFC damage
1u) -
Fig. 4.13 Comparison of
(α) Aluminum

or polycarbonate acrylics plastics: Transparent Other
utilized for canopies and windshields. resins are often
2 are usually found in Zone 1 or Zone These materials
locations, where lightning flashes may attach or sweep
by. Most of the polycarbonates are very good insula-
tors, however, and so will successfully resist punctures
by lightning or streamers. The electric field will pene-
trate them and induce streamers from conducting ob-
jects inside, but these streamers are not usually able
to puncture α polycarbonate.
Fighter pilots beneath polycarbonate canopies
have often reported electric shocks indicative of stream-
ering off their helmets, but the current levels involved
have not been harmful because the streamers have not
come in direct contact with the lightning flash. Lead-
ers approaching the outside of α canopy travel along
its surface to reach α metallic skin, or those initially
aft frame may be swept α forward metal to attached
to an aft metallic until they reattach over α canopy
α scorched leave will occurrence this Sometimes point.
4.14 [4.12]. canopy, as shown in Fig. path across the
be polished away. this can usually Scorches like
Electric shock and flash olindnoss: While harmless to
frequently passing just outside itself, flashes α canopy
cause electric shock or flash blindness to the pilot. In
at least one case shock or blindness to the pilot caused
and low altitude at aircraft of the lose control him to
fatal arcident. in α resulted
damage to different materials,
panel panel (β) CFC
77