.
CHAPTER 8
TO INDIRECT EFFECTS INTRODUCTION
Introduction 8.1
one end shields at only of grounding wire EMI practice dealt with the direct chapters have The previous
in subject discussed most important, α is perhaps the chapters will but the remaining of lightning, effects
16. Chapter The term with deal effects indirect indirect effects.
and test tools very broadly, analytical of Speaking to or malfunction to the damage of lightning refers
particu- are not developed for flashes. techniques from lightning equipment that results electrical EMI/EMC
effect problems, to lightning indirect larly applicable circuit break- range from tripped These effects may
domain phe- is α time because lightning damage of input or principally physical computer upset, to ers to
the activities deal with most EMI/EMC be nomenon and There may of electronic equipment. output circuits
to narrow band Practices related frequency domain. that pertain of lightning flashes indirect effects other
deal may not adequately and absorption crew or RF emission blindness of the safety, such as flash to aircraft
of magnitude voltages and currents with time domain effects, however, are not These acoustic shock waves.
components. burn out electrical sufficient to in this definition and this chapter. Included treated in
and currents induced the voltages discussed here are
activi- NEMP, pulse, electromagnetic Nuclear NEMP: ir- aircraft, of the wiring electrical the on lightning by
ef- indirect lightning on influence α great had have ties currents and voltages such whether or not respective of
funded well been has activity that because partly fects, equipment. of electrical or upset damage cause
This chapter is intended as an introduction to the and partly because NEMP is α time domain phenome-
work analytical of the all Virtually as is lightning. non, briefly, be explained, it will In follow. that chapters
the work by influenced has been effects indirect on with along involved phenomena electrical of the some
of codes computer Most of the field done in be taken must program steps that the of NEMP. α discussion
de- originally were aircraft in analyses lightning use for of Some effects. the indirect with deal successfully to
analyses analytical most of the and veloped for to aircraft made on have been that measurements the NEMP
refined through apertures were with coupling be dealing effects will also nature of indirect the determine
NE&Π. Perhaps connection with in disseminated and discussed be that will the subjects of Most reviewed.
work is [8.1]. of that analytical the best single summary in later chapters. in more detail here will be discussed
most important references to the It contains numerous
8.2 Industry Activities of the original works.
have also in- for developed Test techniques worthwhile activities is of industry Some overview NEMP
true This is particularly those for lightning. small fraction fiuenced can review only α because this volume
voltage are in- and tests in which current light- of bench indirect effects of available on the of the material
interconnect- and the into electronic equipment chap- jected this and the following The discussions in ning.
that the test levels and waveshapes ing wiring. Some of but certain groups of cite various references, ters will
regarding lightning specifications appear in purchase for further at- important are particularly documents
as those developed for the same are virtually tention. NEMP.
and current related to voltage All of the work in the con- the practices involved Many of EMI/EMC:
(Wunsch damage semiconductors to those levels necessary are the same as indirect effects trol of lightning
community. analyses) have also come from the NEMP in classical electromagnetic interference and involved
Chapter 17 work is reviewed in Some of that generally one can compatibility and electromagnetic
of light- good for control practices that are say that the
shielding bonding and effects, grounding, ning indirect
with of work dealing review Α comprehensive This AEHP: problems. of EMI/EMC good for control are also
. the Atmo- conducted effects was indirect not lightning and certainly they are the same say that is not to
by the Program organized Hazard spheric Electricity prob- control of attention to that to say EMI/EMC
Military Airplane Corn- with Boeing Air Force of the US Some of lightning. prevent problems lems will
program reviews In that contractor. as the prime fact pany developed in that have mythology and practices
and the environment of the lightning were conducted The clabsical problems. lightning of solution impede
2Z'3