Direct attachments: The preceeding discussion
lates to joints located in Zone 3 which must conduct
only a portion of the lightning current. Joints located
in other zones can be struck directly by the lightning
arc. It is possible for the lightning arc to remain
tached to a single fastener or rivet. If that happens,
the arc can melt or otherwise damage the rivet and
rounding skin. If ignitable fuel vapors exist beneath
such a joint , the joint may have to be larger
would be otherwise required.
Guidelines for joints: Some other guidelines which
should be noted in designing integral tank joints
as follows:
among paths conducting electrically 1. Provide
structural elements so that lightning currents
be conducted among elements without excessive
arcing, and without having to spark across non-
conducting adhesives or sealants. Often this
be via rivets or removable fasteners, which make
metal to metal contact with joined parts. There
sufficient areas of contact among all of must be
fasteners in the current path to avoid excessive
arcing, damage to the fasteners or surrounding
structural material,
2. Try not to put any insulating materials in places
that would divert lightning current from straight
and direct paths between entry and exit points
the aircraft. Voltages which may cause sparking
will build up wherever diversions in these paths
the fasteners through diversions The exist.
More acceptable. are Fig. 7.24 of stringer
be. may not paths tended
3. Account for aging and mechanical stress which
may cause reduced electrical conductivity.
tinued flexing of structures under flight load
to the point eventually loosen a joint ditions may
where arcing could occur. To evaluate this possi-
bility, perform simulated lightning tests on joint
samples which have been previously subjected
tests. fatigue or environmental
4. Coat all joints thoroughly with fuel tank sealant
to contain any arcs or sparks which may occur.
further discussion on sealing is found in §7.6.3.
5, Do not depend on resistance measurements
conduc- current lightning of adequacy the confirm
plays path the of inductance The joint. a in tivity
an equally important part. Resistance measure-
ments (ac or dc) may be useful as a production
quality control tool, but they are not useful for
establishing the adequacy of the lightning current
path through the joint.

Connectors and Interfaces in Pipes and 7.8 re-
Couplings
Electrical plumbing lines within a fuel tank will
at- usually conduct some of the aircraft lightning cur-
rents since they provide conducting paths in contact
sur- with conducting structures. The amount of current in
plumbing depends on the resistance and inductance of
than current po'hs in plumbing as compared with surround-
ing structural paths. Currents in plumbing within
metal aircraft may be small, a few tens or hundreds
of amperes, but current in metal pipes inside non-
are conducting or CFC structures may be very high.
spark- may cause lines in these The current Problems: the
can ing at pipe couplings where there is intermittent or
poor electrical contact. Some pipe couplings, for ex-
ample, are designed to permit relative motion between
will the mating ends of a pipe to relieve mechanical stresses
caused by wing flexure and vibration and this pre-
cludes the tight metal to metal contact needed to carry
electrically insulating coatings such as the current. Also,
anodized finishes are often applied to the pipe ends
and couplings to control corrosion. Relative motion
and vibration may wear this insulation away, provid-
ing unintentional and intermittent conductive paths,
situations that lead to sparking. Therefore, particular
on attention should be given to the design of fuel system
plumbing.
by plumbing: The mechanism in currents Lightning and
of an interior to the diffuse currents lightning which ex-
it is pointed 11. There Chapter in is discussed aircraft
out that it can take many microseconds for lightning
currents to become distributed through the aircraft
changing currents distribute primarily Con- because rapidly
con- according to the inductance of the paths while slowly
according to resistance. currents distribute changing
The high amplitude return stroke currents will not
spread very deeply into interior structural elements or
to other interior conductors because they are of silort du-
ration, but will instead tend to remain in the metal
a be some current. During Still, there will skins.
NASA sponsored program [7.51] currents in the fuel
A lines within a fuel tank with adhesively bonded alu-
minum structural elements were measured. With a
the current into the wing, 88 kA injected current of to inasaldmerfuliewthntetn ws10
160 was tank the within line fuel diameter a small in
amperes.
The analytical procedures for determining how
rapidly changing currents distribute, §11.4, are com-
plex, but intermediate and continuing cu.rrents persist
for times long enough for the distribution to be calcu-
lated on the basis of the dc resistances involved.
197