precipitation areas of heavy of 2. Circumnavigation
radar displays. weather on airborne indicated
tops of thunderclouds over the 3. Flying
suc- measures is any of these degree to which The
informnation re- on the accuracy of the cessful depends
ceived by the pilots.
Weather which from visual observation, Aside radar:
method common the most limitations, has obvious
weather is using airborne thunderstorms of detecting
clouds them- however, cannot detect radar. Radar,
the Only droplets. liquid only detect can it selves;
a will produce in the cloud may be present rain that
with encounters occasional allows this and echo radar
airborne typical C-band lightning. A and with hail,
thunderstorm presentation radar (cumu- a of weather
and with active precipitation cloud frequent u
lonimbus) cAGE
were pictures [3.10]. The in Fig. 3.8 is shown lightning
Beck- by out carried project research a during taken
weather de- the Lines to determine of United Air with
The photographs of airborne radar. tection capability
flight from United Air Lines during a were taken shown
3.8 shows 3, 1960. Fig. on August Chicago to Denver
de- thunderstorms, end of a line of severe the northern
A detour to the a cold front in Illinois. veloped from
executed with the planned and successfully north was
aid of this radar presentation. The flight remained in
making the de- smooth air while clear and generally
a detected with echos were easily The strong tour.
to eliminate the radar antenna tilt of slight upward
clutter. ground
more in- possible obtain It Contour to selection: is
by use of storm of a the intensity regarding formation
radars. most on provided circuit selection contour the
any re- This feature provides a means of eliminating
a certain above of which is intensity the signal flected
as that radar return the same 3.9 shows level. Fig.
feature with the contour minute later in Fig. 3.8 one
employed.
now appear in which distinct outlines Tie thin,
narrow boundary indicate a original echo of the place
from no rain of rain varies across which the intensity
the to intense rain (inside the white outline) (outside
intensity is called in return This change white outline).
of the white outline the narrower gradient; and the rain
is the gradient. abrupt, or steeper, the more the return,
separation and charge of electric The amount
to the degree be related is known to activity lightning
(turbulence). vertical air currents and of precipitation
related to is also of turbulence the severity Further,
differ- between exists that difference temperature the
ac- and electrical Thus, turbulence ent masses of air.
S.

0026Z TIME:
28 FT. 000 ALTITUDE:
10-MILE RANGE.MARKS:
I ANT.: 'A UP
TRUE 255 HEADING:
OF N END HERE ARE THE STRONG ECHOES
PRO- WERE WHICH THUNDERSTORMS OF LINE A
DAM- WIND AND LIGHTNING SEVERE DUCING
EARLIER, HOUR THAN ONE BELOW. LESS
WERE SIZE OF GOLF RE- BALL HAILSTONES
LARGE NEAREST OF THE AREA THE IN PORTED
0028Z TIME:
FT. 000 28 ALTITUDE:
SE DUBUQUE, SOUTH IOWA, LOOKING OF
THUNDERSTORM OF EDGE S LINE. AND TO W
ESTI. AN TO BUILT WAS CUMULONIMIUS THIS
OF 45 000 FEET. ECHO ON ALTITUDE MATED
TO CORRESPONDS VISUAL. THIS 17-R2 PHOTO
and subsequent Radar presentation 3.8 Fig.
a thunderstorm. photograph of
presentation (a) Radar
of storm appearance (b) Visual
at well defined boundaries, are likely to exist tivity
rain gradients on con- indicated by steep such as those
contour derived from boundaries radar. These toured
a detour. in planning are often used radar
nature of thunderstorms, the variable Considering
to their whereabouts as limited information and the
not surprising that pilots, it is available to and severity
distance is what detour opinions as to are varying there
Primarily, lightning. and turbulence to avoid adequate
commensurate with to use distances is advised a pilot
the radar used. capability of the specific
46