aluminum skin for determining similar to that manner
threshold for tita- coulomb ignition thicknesses. The
of the skin reaches the back side occurs when nium
suffi- Crouch found α temperature 9000C (16500F),
from hot spot formation α fuel-air vapor cient to ignite
tern- not melt at this titanium will [7.46]. Because
ignition before the hole will be formed perature, no
in of the type shown No graphs is reached. threshold
met- generated for other 7.13 have been Figs. 7.12 and
space vehicles,' of certain with the exception als, since,
tank skins. as integral seldom appear these materials
composite skins: The data of §6.5.1 Carbon fiber
CFC thicknesses be utilized to select necessary can
through punch to prevent treatments and protective
The Α or Δ. Components effects, stroke current by
that chapter indicates §7.5.1 of this presented in data
by hot are not possible. Ignition incendiary hot spots
or absence but since the presence filaments was found,
the magnitude of depend on the fibers did not of the
re- guidelines can be established lightning current, no
garding what is necessary to eliminate the hot fila-
ments.zoeon
Fuel tanks and edges: trailing On trailing edges,
spot at one attached to remain tend flashes lightning
through melt to enough long burn to continue can and
As an thickness. reasonable any of almost skins metal
deliv- coulombs, that 200 7.13 shows Fig. example,
by [7.28], would as required 1 second or less, ered in
in.) up to 80 mm (0.313 aluminum skins melt through
would (0.125 in.) thick skin 32 mm thick. Α titanium
shows but Fig. 7.13 α charge, by such not be melted
it of 1320*C to α temperature be heated that would
ignition. that necessary for (2400°F) which exceeds
accumulate in trail- to or fuel vapor Allowing fuel
thus hazardous. is or in edges located ing 2Β 1 Β Zones
are fuel tanks integral with of wings edges Trailing
fuel va- located and ailerons are the flaps and where
With in such areas. to accumulate pors are not likely
tanks, however, fuel tanks or tip externally mounted
at α traiiing could exist fuel vapor is possible that it
out and by closing be provided Protection must edge.
as shown in of the tank, the aft-most volume venting
occur, there does 7.18, so that if melt-through Fig.
be ignited. fuel vapor to will be no
Other ways to protect skins: Several other meth-
melt- to prevent utilized successfully ods have been
metal formation in incendiary hot spot through or
skins and use of laminated These include the skins.
the materials to thermal insulating application of the
surfaces of skins, interior
Laminated skins employ two or more sheets of
190

have shown together. Tests bonded metal adhesively
the exterior ply flash melts away that the lightning
The ranges of the interior ply. melting inta without
satisfac- that are and adhesive thicknesses metal ply
con- so candidate fully evaluated have not been tory
for the ap- as appropriate should be tested figurations
zones. plicable
consisted of layers of poly- have barriers Thermal
materials prevent sealants. Such type fuel tank sulfide
va- contacting fuel or hot spots from hot arc products
to ver- must be tested designs pors. Again, candidate
such as durability Life cycle aspects effectiveness. ify
compatibility with fuels must also be considered and
continued airworthiness. to ensure
exten- been used have which fuel tanks, Bladder
to not possible it was designs where in older sively
α barrier also provide skins, will seal the adequately
or punch-through lightning melt-through between the
vapor. and the fuel
lightning
leading edge are
1 zone LA lA&2Α IB Β
void vapor space void
tig
vapors prevent to sealed bulkhead
area void into leaking from
avoid fuel to Trailing edge construction Fig. 7.18
flash hang-on. ignition from extended
Structures Current In Tank Effects of 7.6
been attributed that have accidents In the aircraft
of in-flight as α result occurred and that lightning to
has fuel ignition cause of the exact of fuel, explosion
or by vent outlets at fuel Ignition remained obscure.
has been suspected tank skins of integral melt-through
to this ef- evidence cases, but no conclusive in several
that is Another possibility been tound. fect has ever
tank struc- fuel through the passing lightning current
caused could have system components ture or fuel
fuel and ignited the arcing in the tanks sparking or
found of this has been evidence vapor. No conclusive
either, but the marks left by α spark rele.
millijoules of energy would be difficult to deý_
case.
keepin* been given to attention has Much iibat-
by pro- interior of the aircraft of the ning currents out
skins. Still, cur- and tightly bonded conductive viding
such as elements on interior structural rent does exist
spars and ribs, and also on fuel and vent pipes. When-