5000 of loading (total used were resistor series ohm
oscilloscope. the signal reaches the 1% of ohms), only
or- on the were signal voltage induced the unloaded If
be 10 would the scope to the signal volt, der of one
background that the Experience has shown millivolts.
noise") is or "white (thermal in the scope noise levels
to be a signal This would of 1 millivolt. order on the
for margin any without 10:1, even of only level noise
cables. measurement on the pickup noise
some in be required may probes Active probes: Active
Both be measured. must small signals when instances
are commercially probes and differential ended single
has indi- them some of with but experience available,
to elim- be sufficient shielding may not that their cated
must be checked They of noise pickup. problems inate
Active probes adequate. shielding is that the to insure
probe the Both 13.17. Fig. custom made, be also can
shielded. well be to have supply power the and
long can feed
0 0 able output
ld g lll Volts L51 --
probe. Active 13.17 Fig.
the to measure is only If the task pickup: Intrinsic
mea- if some cable, and an aircraft pickup of intrinsic
another times, short at tolerated be can error surement
to cables and 50 ohm measurement is to use approach
cable of the aircraft the far end circuit at install a short
into induced the entire voltage forces test. This under
to the at the end connected cable to appear the aircraft
measurement without the cable. Making measurement
be voltage to the ultimate allows resistance any series
oscillations but the high frequency recorded correctly,
series resis- a high Using recorded correctly. are not
re- more faithfully to be the oscillations allows tance
of the signal the level reduces of course but produced,
to the oscilloscope. delivered
measuiennts:, Most current Current uisasurements
be can that trandormers current pulse using made are
oscillo- measuring cable to the 50 ohm through coupled
and the point the oscilloscope between scope. Spacing
Currents on problem. is seldom a under measurement
be measured can small bundles wires and individual
in Fig, 13.18(a). probes. as clamp-on current with
306

win- large with available are probes on clamp- Some
may bundles cable large which through openings dow
cores solid have transformers current Other passed. be
the con- Measurements require be opened. cannot that
and transformer the through be threaded to ductor
for cable bundles, feasible generally then reconnected,
connec- a removable in terminates the cable provided
may re- transformers such conductors single tor. For
respliced. and then to be cut the conductor quire
trans- current improvise to is feasible it Sometimes
de- Construction cores. or split toroidal using formers
The 13.18(b). in Fig. shown are circuits and tails
is of the transformer sensitivity
(13.2) KNR.
ohm input 50 the by paralleled R equals where Re
core Larger oscilloscope, measuring the of resistance
wind- secondary turns on the more cross section, size
low extend the all loading resistors smaller ing and
Improvised transformer. response of the frequency
good as seldom have responses current transformers
as commercially available transformers, but they may
deter- be should Responses the task, for sufficient be
mined experimentally.
(a)
N tur Val
(b)
Sprlrt traesformers. 13.18 C Fig.
core (a) Split
(b) Solid COre