generator of the surge power level Increase the only for ad- 3. calls This procedure approach: Modified
is obtained current either (α) the specified until to α specified voltage magnitude justing the induced
maximum value. Α separate adjustment is not made or the setting is reached. (β) Σ,
for short circuit current since the current would be re-
requisite number of pulses. of generator 4. Apply the lated to the voltage by the specifications
impedance.
The open circuit voltage is measured on α single
Procedures for Oscillatory Waveforms 18.7.3 turn calibration winding on the injection transformer
and the surge generator power setting is increased un-
til the specified voltage is obtained, at which point the
are injecting oscillatory currents Procedures for The waveshape of the setting is noted. Σ,, generator
test 1 and 2, but same as for waveforms basically the be noted. The imped- voltage should also open circuit
at number of frequencies to the differ as practices and injection transformer of the characteristics ance
surge generator are assumed to oe basically sound if which tests must be made.
the requisite voltage waveshape is obtained.
"Yellow book" approach: Early guidelines [18.8] rec-
The test procedure is as follows: ommended making tests for assessment of damage at
two frequencies, 1 MHz and 10 MHz. More recent
1. Connect the various pieces of equipment under proposals [18.9, 18.10] call for assessment of upset at
test with suitable cables, multiple frequencies between 1 and 50 MHz of systems
that might be susceptible to upset or damage at other
not frequencies. of test procedures do Present drafts [18.9]
that can be developed, and the of what is suitable, The waveforms clearly address the question
but evolving practice suggests using the actual ca- ratio of voltage to current, are more strongly influ-
ble configuration if possible. If the length or con- enced by impedances of the test circuit than in the
Cable impedance and the case of waveforms 1 and 2. cables is not known then struction of the actual
are both important. of the test generator the best estimate impedance tests should be made using the
SAE AE-4Λ requirements on the source imped- of the actual lengths or construction. If the actual The
generator and injection transformer ance of the surge test program, are too long for α practical cables
into together they be capable of delivering of shorter length may be used, are that then test cables
but the method of shielding and termination of an open circuit α specified voltage and deliver into α
shields should replicate the actual cables as far short circuit α specified current. The ratio of voltage
as it is practical. Specially fabricated test cables to current (peak values) is to be 25, but there are no
should be α minimum of two meters long, this be- specific frequency characteristics specified. Many gen-
ing α reflection of test practices. erators have α resistive frequency characteristic, but EMI/EMC
be resis- to is not constrained impedance the source
2. Position the injection and monitoring transform- tive.
ers as shown in Fig. 18.38.
The test procedure would be es follows:
Transient Remove the injection transformer from the test 1. Generator cbe
cable. probe-- injection
circuit the desired open the generator until 2. Adjust β cable under test voltage is obtained, as measured on α single turn
calibration winding. Record the setting, of the Σ. monitor probe
generator.
3. Clamp the injection transformer to α short cir-
cuited loop of wire and measure the short circuit
Oscilloscope current. The ratio of voltage to current should be
25, within an agreed upon tolerance.
Fig. 18.38 Test setup for injection of waveforms
or if the correct, is not current short circuit If the 4. 2. 1 and
486