3. Laboratory studies of breakdown in long air gaps,
α mechanism similar to that of natural lightning,
show that initial ionization always begins at one
the electrodes and not from an object suspended
in the gap [3.16]. In those studies the object sig-
which at level voltage the influenced nificantly
breakdown began only if it was close enough
one electrode to influence the field about the elec-
trode. Whether those studies were particularly
representative of aircraft, however, is α subject
still under debate.
4. Triggered lightning currents measured on research
aircraft have generally been of lower amplitude
than those of natural cloud--ground lightning mea-
current levels do not at ground level. These sured
seem to be large enough to account for some
the physical damage observed on aircraft,
It be that aircraft do not become involved may
the formation of the lightning flash until after leader
propagation has begun. If the leader happens to ap-
proach the aircraft, the field intensification produced
by the presence of the aircraft becomes much more sig-
nificant, and the leader may then be attracted to the
aircraft.
There is some evidence [3.17] that jumbo (wide-
body) aircraft do trigger their own flashes. If large-
body aircraft are in fact triggering flashes, it is proba-
bly because their larger sizes make α more noticeable
perturbation on the electric field near the cloud charge
centers from which leaders begin.
The aircraft motion has little influence on the
propagating leader because the aircraft is moving
much slower, about 102 μ/σ, than the leader, which
is advancing at to 10' μ/σ. 10' Thus, the aircraft
appears stationary to the leader during the leader for-
mation process.
Several other stimuli have been mentioned as pos-
sible causes of aircraft lightning strikes. These include
engine exhaust and radiated electromagnetic energy,
such as radar transmission.
Effect of engine exhaust: There has been specula-
tion that the hot jet-engine exhaust gases may con-
tain α sufficient number of ionized particles to attract
or trigger α lightning flash to the aircraft. This specu-
lation was heightened by the widely publicized launch
of Apollo 12, which apparently triggered α lightning
flash (or flashes) that twice struck the top of the ve-
hidle; once when it had reached 1950 μ (6400 ft) and
again at 4270 μ (14 000 ft). The flash(σ) exited from
the vehicle exhaust plume.

Studies by Nanevicz, Pierce, and Whitson [3.181 of
this and other incidents in which α rocket was rapidly
of introduced into an intense electric field indicate that
the exhaust plume does appear electrically conductive,
making the rocket appear longer than its actual phys-
length. ical
to An empirical study by Pierce [3.17] of documented
strikes to tall grounded and airborne conductors con-
cluded that there must also be α potential disconti-
nuity between the conductor and the adjacent atmo-
sphere of up to 106 V if the lightning leader is to be
initiated from the conductor, and that the rapid dis-
charge of hot ionized gas from the rocket engine may
cause sufficient charge separation from the vehicle to
increase its potential to 106 V or more with respect to
its surroundings.
of Shaeffer and Weinstock have [3.15] studied the
conductivity of an aircraft jet-engine exhaust. In this
electrons in α jet ex- particles and free case, ionized
in haust originate in the combustion chamber as α result
of chemical reactions taking place between the intake
air and jet fuel. The *on concentration in α jet-engine
exhaust has been measured by Fowler [3.19] to be be-
tween 5 ξ and 106 3 ξ 107 particles per cubic centimeter
 3 ( π/cm ) and the free electron density deduced from
5 this to be between 5 ξ to 3 103 ξ 10 π/cm'. The
electron density in luminous rocket exhaust has been
 3 calculated by Pierce [3.20] to be 1012 π/cm , as has
that in the tip of an advancing leader. Conversely, the
free electron density in ambient air ranges from 100
 3 to . Evidently, then, the jet-engine exhaust 103 π/cm
is only slightly more ionized than the ambient air and
much less so than the rocket exhaust, with the result
that the jet exhaust would not be expected to have
sufficient conductivity to initiate or attract α lightning
leader. This conclusion is supported by aircraft light-
ning strike incident reports, which indicate that engine
tail pipes are not often lightning attachment points un-
less they are already located at an aircraft extremity,
where the electric field would be intense from geoniet-
rical conditions alone.
There is also no evidence to suggest that jet air-
craft are struck more often than piston-engined air-
craft. Overall, the ability of the jet aircraft to operate
at higher altitudes and spend less time climbing and
descending to airports has probably rendered the jet
less snsceptible than its piston engined predecessor to
lightning strikes, which occur predominantly at low or
intermediate altitudes.
Some records do exist of strikes to jet engines and
in some cases these strikes have terminated inside the
engine exhaust pipes, as illustrated in Fig. 3.17. These
strikes are evidenced by spots of melted metal within
53