________.._Expanded
diverterstationary rod Σ
displacement
Λ-
Σ
diverter strap cm
(movable)
nonmetallic skin "Aluminized
conducting simulated
object
Fig. 6.36 Experimental determination of maximum
diverter displacement distance,
Solid metal foil: Metal foil can be cemented over
non-conducting surface to provide α conducting layer.
Metal foils of 0.025 mm (0.001 in) or greater provide
lightning protection that is about the same as that
provided by wire meshes. Α substantial amount of foil
this thick will be melted away at lightning attachment
points, but the non-conductive material underneath
will not generally suffer more than cosmetic damage.
Partly, the protection is afforded because the foil sepa-
rates from the surface being protected, moving the arc
root away from the surface,
The amount of metal foil melted away by α strike
is related to the intensity of the lightning current and
to the thickness of the foil, but there are no significant
differences in performance for the various types of met-
als. Most protection applications have used aluminum
foil.
Manufacturing concerns have limited the appli-
cation of metal foil as protection. Metal foil, like
metal fabrics, will not drape smoothly over α com-
pound curve. To prevent wrinkles it must be cut and
spliced and this results in seams which might arc and
delaminate, even at low current levels. The foil also
surface, which makes it hard to bond has α smooth
the surface to be protected. Unbonded areas may al-
low the foil to become delaminated and they also can
collect moisture, which can cause corrosion,
Because of these difficulties solid metal foils are
rarely used to protect composite materials,
by fabricated These are foils: metal Expanded
milling process that perforates and stretches α solid
metal foil. It has the appearance of α woven wire mesh,
yet is fabricated of one piece of metal, and thus has
better conductivity than metal fabrics which depend
on contact between the wires to provide conductiv-
ity. Protection effectiveness is very good for all zones
and about the same as woven wire meshes and flame
sprayed metals.

foils are better than wire fabrics at
draping over compound curves since they can be
stretched somewhat. They can be bonded to corn-
posite laminates as well as wire fabrics and, like fab-
rics, tend to promote arc root dispersion. Thus, much
at- strike α at away burned be foil will expanded less
tachment point than would be the case for an equal
thickness of solid foil.
fiberglass: Glass fibers can be coated with
significant with α material is result the and aluminum
α nom- has fiber An individual conductivity. electrical
inal resistance of 2 ohms/cm. The coated fibers and
prepregs made from the fibers are available commer-
cially. Α virtue of the material is that the outer ply
of α structure can be replaced by α ply made from the
coated fibers.
α Individual fibers can carry 50 Α for 1ys, 5 Α for 1
ms and 0.3 amperes continuously. They have this good
capability for carrying currents of duration 1 ps to 1
ms because of the excellent thermal coupling between
the aluminum and the glass. The glass provides α heat
sink, enabling the aluminum coated fiber to carry twice
the current that could be carried by the aluminum by
itself.
At the point of lightning strike attachment, some
volume of the aluminum will be explosively vaporized,
the area affected depending on the magnitude of the
strike and the amount of aluminum on the prepreg.
If the coated fiberglass material is covered by fillers
or paints, the expanding gasses will be contained and
more of the explosive force will be directed into the
material to be protected, the added amount of damage
being related to the mass of covering material. Materi-
als that might be applied over coated fiberglass include
fillers, paints and other layers of fiberglass. Standard
thicknesses of paint and primer, 5 to 7 mils, are usually
not sufficient to cause any significant damage, but 10
mils of putty or α ply of fiberglass can result in dam-
age to several layers of fiberglass below the aluminum
coated fiberglass. to
Increased damage caused by confinement of arc
products is not α problem only with aluminized fiber-
glass; it occurs with any protective material. Confine-
ment does, however, seem to promote more extensive
damage to aluminized fiberglass than to either woven
wire fabrics or expanded metal foils.
α
Metal loaded paints: Adding metal particles, such as
copper or aluminum, to α paint results in α surface that
has α certain amount of conductivity and has some
ability to provide lightning protection, though the pro-
tection is marginal since the metal particles make only
random contact with each other. As α result the coat-
ing has α much lower conductivity than an equivalent
film of pure metal.
145