plete replacement of metal fuel or vent lines by elec- Magnetic field Intensity: Α comparison between the
trically non-conductive lines, magnetic field intensities occurring within an alu-
If electrically non-conductive lines are used, the minum wing and those occurring within α CFC wing
material from which they are fabricated will need to be was made during tests conducted for the previously
doped to provide α minimal level of electrical conduc- mentioned NASA program [7.61). The magnetic fields
tivity (high resistivity) for static charge dissipation, in the CFC wing were 3.0 to 3.7 times larger than in
The resistivity of the material should be of the order α comparable aluminum wing.
of 106 ohm-centimeters. If this is not done, high speed
refueling and rapid fuel transfer operations could build Direct are attachment: The problems described
up static charges on these lines resulting in spark dis- above must be addressed during the design of both
charges within the tank, aluminum and CFC fuel tanks but are more difficult
Fuel and vent lines which conduct currents should to solve for CFC tanks. In addition, the designer must
be carefully designed at their interfaces with the struc- also solve the problem of direct lightning arc attach-
ture to contain arc and spark products which may oc- ment to the fuel tank external skin. The problem of α
cur. The performance of these interfaces should be possible skin melt-through faced by the designer of α
verified by tests performed at the maximum current meral fuel tank becomes the problem of α skin punc-
level expected. ture for the designer of α CFC~tar•.
The CFC material is composed of graphite yarns Induced voltages: The third problem faced by the fuel and epoxy resin. Since the melting point of graphite
tank designer of α CFC tank is that of voltages induced 2060°C (3735'F) is much higher than the temperature
on electrical wiring within the tank, such as those as- at which pyrolysis of resin occurs 0 160°C (315 F), at-
sociated with the fuel quantity probes. As discussed in tachment of the lightning arc damages the CFC by
§7.7.5, induced voltages can appear between all of the pyrolysis and, usually, ignition of the resin, which in
incoming wires and the airframe. Since the shielding turn causes gross delamination. Burning of the resin
effectiveness of the CFC skin is lower than that of an then leaves the entire composite in disarray; however, aluminum skin, additional care must be taken by the damage is generally limited to that which is visible at
designer to ensure that adequate gaps are maintained the attachment point.
between the active electrodes of the fuel quantity probe
and the airframe.
ι ι total Aluminum total CFC
Tank Tank
(α) 6Jo 6 8 7o0 Als
ι structure j structure
(β) _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 70- σ rI I&0
ι plumbing ι plumbing
Fig. 7.45 Lightning currents in plumbing within alu-
minum and CFC tanks.
(α) Total current
(β) Current in structure
(χ) Current in plumbing
212