filament or circu- On an isolated filaments Isolated
entire length, I over its lar conductor carrying α current
will be: flux density at point Π Fig 9.10, the
Α/rn. (9.50) sin) + Β=u 1(sina ξ10'
sirr 4ir × - H
be so is assumed to the current return path for The
the magnetic not influence that it does far beyond ρ 3
field,
Α
- - - 1/2 - - - - - - Β Y
0 Α
,"Λ 0 -1/2
ri ρ ρ 2 3
conductor. field of α finite 9.10 Magnetic Fig.
Fig. dipole, of α short case limiting the For Dipole:
9.11, the field is:
(9.51) Α/μ sina H =-.
α or α filament around flux the of The direction
il- rule" "right hand the by given as be .vill cylinder
condi- high frequency all For 9.9, Fig. on lustrated
the to will be parallel lines flux the magnetic tions
of are conductors the if even conductors, surface of
inten- field the of magnitude the and shape, irregular
local surface the to equal be identically will sity, H.
For cir- amperes/meter. measured in current density
uniform will be the irrent density cular conductors
periph. divided by the to the total current and equal
eral distance around the coniductor. For conductors of
depend on the density will shape the current irregular
in considerably as ,iscussed of curvature local radius
10. Chapter in detail more
α current carrying external to magnetic field The
concen- current were as though the is the same tube
center, at the on α filament trated

Hollow Conductors Within Fields 9.7.2
in- conductors the total field If there are several
the individual by sum of that produced tensity is the
carrying an each two conductors conductors. With
cancel at the the fields will Fig. 9.12, equal current,
will not cancel, fields at other points midpoint. The
outside in the space be lower than their sum will but
conductors equally spaced With three the conductors.
at three will cancel currents the fields equal carrying
circle and conductors arranged in α places. With many
will the field an equal current, conductor carrying each
within the circle. at many points cancel
PPTr
1
of α dipole. Magnetic field Fig. 9.11
conductors
1/2 1/2
fields
χ anel
cXncel \
ω .- xxI
. .. ,/ , . .
two conductors. Field between 9.12 Fig.
253