uH 0.5 ohms 2.5 uH 1.6
ohms Σ0.01
0 0100.
H ; u 3 σ μ •o σ : hmoh
uF 25 Load
oa kV 100
0
kA 100
SCompound circuit
0 100 •(β)
6.64 Waveshape improvement by
co circuit. δ
(α) Circuit improveLentub ig ject
(β) Calculated waveshapes
capacitors: Peaking Another compound circuit, Fig.
6.65(α) employs α low inductance peaking capacitor,
energy main the when charged rapidly is which C.,
dis- is then This [6.37]. is discharged storage bank
auxiliary spark when the the test piece charged into
gap Γ2 is fired. Fig. 6.65(β) shows calculated wave-
and without the peaking capacitor, though forms with
not been optimized elements have the indicated circuit
to give the best waveshape,
peaking ca- that the concept is of the virtue Α
pacitor can be charged to α voltage higher than the
by bank, storage energy the main of voltage charging
the main when that takes place oscillation of the virtue
peaking capac- on the Higher voltage is closed. switch
initial current. supply more that it can itor means
its induc- best when works peaking capacitor Α
are path of the discharge tance and the inductance
capacitor plate peaking parallel α small. Sometimes
mesh from α being formed capacitor be used, the can
the test ob- plane ω.θ α ground held above of wires
overhead grid, though this is underneath the Σ jct being

ohms 0.01
(closed) ,Gap uN 0.5 1.6 ohms"- uH 2.4
5 F3u uF 25
Load Capacitor
.. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... .
peaking no u
capacitor With peaking ." [
"' "
improvement by 6.65 Waveshape Fig.
capacitor. peaking
Calculated waveshapes
only practical for large outdoor generators. Numerical
or physical experimentation may be necessary to de-
ε.verav"'topa termine the circuit elements that give optimum wave-
shape.
generators: are Rating of current Current generators
most commonly rated in terms of their stored energy,
current of the the duration and current maximum their
ofra surge measure One piece. to α test deliver can they
as Integral, defined is its current Action
0
ldt (6.30) : Al
(
If load resistance were constant, the action integral
current, by the eftergy delivered define the would
(6.31) = Alx Ω R
is not, how- but it useful concept, is α Action integral
current ability of α test the wasure of α perfect ever,
perfect measure of the energy or α damage to cause
test samole. into the generator from the transferred
in be rated would generators Ideally, current
α test piece. cause damage to to their ability terms of
high volt- would be current generators ideally, Also,
of injecting capable devices high impedance age and
As into α load of any impedance. α specified current
165