tip at the quantity probe were a fuel If there
ground to instrumentation referenced if it were and
between be 5000 volts there would bay, the avionics
cause a spark might skin. This voltage and the probe
bottom adjacent top or ends and probe the between
skins.
struck, 000 feet when were at 30 aizcraft If the
Paschen curve of calculations using the then by
would sparkover to prevent gap required the air 7.27,
If a safety factor 4.5 millimeters. have to be at least
the air in §7.3.6, recommended used, as of 2 were
mm (0.4 in). about 10 would have to be distance
make requirements measurement fuel quantity If
the clearance, this much to provide impractical it
other in some insulation to provide need signer would
to the coating a dielectric as adding way, such
of or more layers of one probe or bonding quantity
skin adjacent fuel tank the interior material to electric
method would Either tip ends. quantity probe to the
An flashover. of a spark the possibility minimize
to determine still be tested should probe specimen tual
voltage, sparkover the actual
is not confined IR voltages of high The problem
installations. Potential of hardware to the design
elements structural between can also develop ferences
which are path current along the lightning located
case in wing a. This is the other. from each lated
bonded ribs may be adhesively the spars and in which
non-conductive ad- with electrically wing skins to the
can occur which differences potential The hesives.
sparkover in voltage can result conditions under such
the structural bond line between of the adhesive
where in locations most often will happen ments. This
composite or are used in either or fasteners no rivets
is greater potential the although metal structures
which voltages the higher due to structures composite
may develop,
bond Adhesive line voltages: bond Adhesive
structures wing full scale on two recorded voltages,
[7.57], previously study mentioned the NASA during
alu- bonded across adhesively voltages showed that
dur- 2.5 volts could reach elements structural minum
contrast, By currents. 200 kA test of ing conduction
CFC bonded adhesively across measured voltages
[7.589." currents test 190 kA for 200 volts were ments
rivets a few by adding be reduced might voltage This
potential voltage the lower to locations selected at
tank fuel Alternatively, the elements. between ference
con- to interfaces joint along be applied could sealant
sparks. any tain
by faced problem second The currents: Increased
currents of the magnitude the is tanks CFC of designer
strike A lightning plumbing. tank fuel the through

cur- in lightning will result for example, wing tip, end a
located an exit point the wing to through rent passing in
con- will seek These currents aircraft. on the the elsewhere
spars, ribs, wing skin, include the paths which ductive
tank plumbing. fuel and internal
to the in- divides according the current Initially,
the stays in and largely elements of all the ductance
to resis- currents divide according CFC. At later times Fig.
metal The internal current paths. various tance of the
skin, so than the CFC is more conductive plumbing
to the plumbing. transfers the current part of gap a large
CFC, the rapidly into the diffuses the current Since
CFC inside surfaces of the current on of the waveshape
the exter- as it is on the same is thus about structures de-
surfaces. nal
metal and CFC in current distributions Typical fuel
total 7.45. The in Fig. shown graphically tanks are di-
in Fig. is shown the wing entering current lightning
or hardware metal plumbing The currents in 7.45(a).
a major cases being in some high levels, can reach ac-
currents By comparison, total current. of the portion
of a in the skin of time longer period for a will remain
metal into internal slowly diffuse more wing and metal
high amplitudes. never reaching conductors, dif-
distribution Current patterns: distribution Current iso-
dur- were measured structure in a CFC wing patterns tank
A current 7.60]. A 900 study [7.59 and ing a NASA
discharger base of a static injected into the was wave
the cur- of with the amplitudes wing tip at the located
control cables, conduit, leading edge in the skin, rent
and measured at four microseconds and hydraulic lines ele-
7.46 and shown in Figs. Results are 80 microseconds.
the initial por- that during figures show 7.47. The
approximately conducted the skin of the strike, in tion
decreased percentage but this current the test of 74%
a time, this latter At 80 microseconds. after to 29%
had been originally which of the current, portion large
by conducted now being skin, was by the conducted line
hydraulic and cables, control conduit. edge leading the
lines.
by conducted currents amplitude higher peak The
additional tank present a CFC in tank plumbing fuel
alu- in an plumbing designer. While for the challenges
amperes of several currents may conduct minum tank ele-
a CFC within plumbing amperes, of hundreds or even
of several currents conduct to be required may tank
plumbing for Couplings designed amperes. thousand dif-
with- amperes to 2500 up can conduct tanks of metal
tank metal for is satisfactory level This sparking. out
am- of thousands the for inadequate is but designs
the Thus, a CFC tank. occur within which can peres
elec- as such alternatives consider to need will designer the
within located links isolation non-conductive trically
com- or locations appropriate at lines plumbing the to
211