the domain time the In space: problem and Modeling
are: equations curl Maxwell two
ξ Β
-limitations &
(10.50) ξ V + J, H + aE
-Δ -it
equations of the domain solution α time Implementing
each surface that requires coordinates in rectangular
be under study article) other (or any the aircraft of
cells, dimensional three of assemblage by an modeled
Fig. 10.22. on as shown
TDdTO
Z
in used F-106 of Model 10.22 Fig.
code. finite-difference
de- resolution on the depends cells the of size The
thumb of rule Α domain solution. time the in sired
wavelength the resolve to are needed cells five is that
the if Therefore, interest. of frequency highest of the
di- cell then the MHz, 100 is up to resolution desired
μ) wide (0.6 2 foot be about to have would mension
waves electromagnetic which with velocity the since
more or 1 ft/ns, about is surface the along propagate
mn/ns. 0.3 precisely,
on information contains cell each one time At any
instant next the At fields. electric magnetic and the
to propagated have will cell each in fields the time of
fields the how on depending manner α in cells, adjacent
time previous the at cells those in distributed were
step.
in the fields way the that analysis assumes The
fields on the only depends propagate cell α particular
step. time previous at the neighbors its immediate in
partial various the allow to suffices information This
approximated to be equations Maxwell'σ in derivatives
suggested as two quantities, of of differences ratios by
has beenwidely which procedure, The Yee [10.241. by
detailed not be will NEMP community, the used in
10.25 110.23, literature in the described it is but here,
 10,27]. -
288

cells, the of each of coordinates the on Informat•ion
electric magnetic and the information on with along
the in must be stored cells the of each in intensity field
totally impractical) are (hand calculations computer
one of the the required memory locations provide and
can be aircraft which the degree to on the
size the halving by resolution the Doubling modeled.
α factor by storage requirements the raises the cells of
size is cell if the Also, computations. for 3Δ eight of
must the time step then two, of α factor by reduced
in order Therefore, of two. factor by α be reduced
gridded more finely of the the response calculate to
the original as final time same to the space problem
computer time. requires sixteen times as much problem
has technique finite difference domain The time
understand- to application successful an extensive had
thunder- C-580 and F-106Β the response of the ing
- [10.28 lightning triggered to aircraft research storm
re- lightning the to model been used also It has 10.37j.
of response the to model [10.38], helicopters of sponse
test fa- lightning to design facilities and in test aircraft
three and dimensional two Both [10.39, 10.40]. cilities
been have approaches and 3DFD) (2DFD) dimensional
implemented.
straightfor- is α approach the Because Advantages:
are there equations curl of Maxwell'σ ward solution
ac- solution though approximations, no fundamental
the to which degree the the by limited be may curacy
be modeled can aircraft of an actual shape complex
in factor The main limiting cells. of assemblage as an
used computer the of memory and speed the is analysis
usage. computer of cost the and calculations the for
are: approach of this advantages Other
can be modeled. 1. Nonlinearities
in described sources lightning of types three All 2.
modeled, be can §10.6
and (linear elements line transmission and Circuit 3.
with interfaced and integrated be can nonlinear)
interac- self-consistent allowing thus codes, 3DFD
fixtures test and generators pulse of lightning tion
modeled. being aircraft the with
has been it in that credibility considerable 4. It has
both data, to experimental compared successfully
communities. lightning and NEMP the in
mod. can be shapes dimensional three 5. Complex
eled.
is approach this disadvantage of One Disadvantages:
consider- need users and complex are codes the that
is sub- require may codes that the is Another able skill.