p"'A) . rie. to p, h occurrences, and craft. Externally mounted hardware , most frequently e
labor-•ory tests j4.15] have snown that the voltage re- involved includes navigation lights, antennas, wind-
quired to spark a typical capacitance type probe is shield heaters, pitot probe heaters, and, in earlier days,
many times greater than that induced in fuel gauge cir- the trailing long wire antennas that were deploy, i in
cuits by lightning. However, other situations involving flight for high frequency radio communications. The
unenclosed circuits, such as externally mounted fuel latter were quite susceptible to lightning strikes, and,
the light- wherein induced voltages may be much since these wires were too thin to conduct tanks, exist
burned away. The currents, they were frequently completely enclosed ning higher than those found in circuits
high frequency radio sets feeding these antennas were by an airframe.
also frequently damaged, and cockpit fires were not
uncommon.
Outcome of research: The accidents referenced above
prompted extensive research into the lightning ef- Illustration of damage: Damage may be increased
fects on and protection of aircraft fuel systems. Im- when an electrical assembly is mounted on nonmetal-
proved bonding, lightning protected filler caps and lic portions of the airframe because some lightning cur-
access doors, active and passive vent flame suppres- rent may have to use the assembly ground wire as a
sion devices, flame retardant foams, and safer (i.e., path to the main airframe, as described in §4.2. That
!ess flammable) fuels are examples of developments the resulting damage can be extensive is exemplified by
which have resulted from this research. In addition, a strike to a small single engine aircraft with fiberglass
FAA airworthiness requirements now focus attention wing tips which included fuel tanks, the type pictured
on lightning protection for aircraft fuel systems, as in Fig. 4.15.
noted in Chapter 5. As a result of these safety mea- The details of this incident [4.15, 4.16] will illus-
sures, lightning strikes have presented fewer hazards trate several of the strike effects described in this see-
to the fuel systems aboard modern transport aircraft tion.
than to those of older aircraft, and properly certified This aircraft, flying at about 900 m (3000 ft), was
aircraft may expect to experience lightning strikes with experiencing light rain and moderate turbulence when
no adverse effects on fuel systems. Continued changes it was struck by lightning. The pilots had seen other
in airframe designs and materials, however, make it lightning flashes in the vicinity before their aircraft
rmandatory that care and diligence in fuel system light- was struck, and embedded thunderstorms had been
ning protection not be relaxed in the future. forecast enroute, but there had been no cells visible
on the air traflic control (ATC) radar being used to
4.5 Direct Effects on Electrical Systems vector the aircraft, which had no weather radar of its
own.
If an externally mounted electrical apparatus, The strike entered one wing tip and exited from
such as a navigation lamp or antenna, happens to be the other. It sounded to the pilot reporting like a rifle
at a lightning attachment point, protective globes or going off in the cabin, and the cabin immediately filled
fairings may shatter and permit some of the lightning with smoke. Other effects follow.
current to enter associated electrical wiring directly.
In the case. of a wing tip navigation light, for ex- 1. The No. 1 VHF communication set burned out.
ample, lightning nmay shatter the protective globe and 2
were circuit breakers five percent of the Seventy the lightning chan- may in turn allow light bulb. This .
later. reset be could 50% only which of tripped, cur- lightning that so filament the bulb contact to nel
rents may flow into the electrical wires running from 3. The left wing tip fuel tank quantity indicator was
the bulb to the power distribution bus. Even if only a disabled.
fraction of the total lightning current enters the wires,
they may be too small to conduct the thousands of am- 4. The right main fuel tank quantity indicator was
peres involved and thus will be melted or vaporized, badly damaged
as described in §4.2.
out. burned were lights instrument Several 5. break- may cause surge voltage accompanying The
down of insulation or damage to other electrical equip- 6. The navigation light switch and all the lights were
ment powered from the same source. At best, the burned out.
initial component affected is disabled, and, at worst,
enough other electrical apparatus is disabled along The aircraft, nevertheless, was able to land at a
"wi'l to impair flight safety. There are many exam- nearby airport. Subsequent inspection showed exten-
is effect, involving both military and civil air- sive damage to the right and left wing tips and to their
79