are that locations in and wiring equipment placing
pro- fields the electromagnetic to exposed most
duced by lightning,
experience indi- but all seem obvious, These may
that they are often overlooked, cates
Electronic Equipment of Location 16.3
not designer may the constraints other of Because
often possible it is but matter, in the choice much have
ef- indirect to resistance in the improvements make to
where regions equipment in electronic locating fects by
lightning cur- by produced fields the electromagnetic
of equip- placement the by avoiding and are lowest rent
are fields electromagnetic region where the the ment in
type important most since the For example, highest.
environ- electromagnetic from the outside of coupling
through apertures, is the aircraft inside of to the ment
as far from be located should that equipment it follows
as possible. apertures major
imperfectly their with access doors since Further,
of electromagW source a major are covers conducting
lo- be should equipment that it follows leakage, netic
In as possible. doors from such access as far cated
done, how- said than easily be more this may practice
doors is the purpose of access frequently ever, because
equipment. to electronic ready access to provide
electronic locate be to should goal main One
structure center of the aircraft the equipment toward
electromag- the since the extremities, at than rather
of any toward the center tend to cancel netic fields
structure.
electronic locate be to should goal main Another
par- of the vehicle; skin the outer away from equipment
where the aircraft, of the the nose away from ticularly
path current Sarying of a prime of curvature radius
equip- if possible, eleffmic Furthermore, is smallest.
compartments. in shielded be located should ment
factor important One and planes: ground Shelves
type of shelf is the control the designers is under that
The located. is to be equipment electronic which upon
using for aircraft importance is of particular matter
the structure. for material of composite amounts large
ground provide upon to be called will These shelves
equipment electronic for surfaces or reference planes
highly conductive they be that it is essential and thus
They structure. bonded to the aircraft be well and
com- made from or, if of metal be made either should
a sheet with be covered should they materials, posite
aircraft structure. to the well bonded of aluminum
Wiring of Location 16.4
the over more control somewhat have Designers
than equipment interconnect used to of wiring routing

Wiring itself. the equipment of location the over
from and away apertures from away be located should
of structural curvature radius of where the regions
Moreover, skin is smallest. the outer members or
ground plane or as close to a be located should wiring
mem- member as possible. If the structural structural
into a trough to provide can be shaped shaped or is ber
pro- will member the be placed, may wiring the which
wiring if the will it than shielding inherent more vide
examples Some member. of the edge the placed on is
for places best and the members structural typical of
In each 16.1. in Fig. are shown wiring of bundles
be carrying to is assumed member the structural case
its axis. along current
N
INS
(
I
(d)
( l wt
position. vs conductor linkages 16.1 Flux Fig.
over a plane (a) Conductors
angle near an Conductors (b)
near a channel Conductors (c)
near a box (d) Conductors
pictured In each case
worst linkages: - highest flux I Conductor
better linkages: 2 - intermediate Conductor
best lowest linkages: 3 - Conductor
are: to follow principles Sone basic
to a metallic placed is a conductor The closer 1.
can pass that is the flux the less ground plane,
ground plane. the and that conductor between
422