Standardized threat: These two premises, combined
with early visualizations of α standardized lightning
threat, underlay studies ja~ly of lightning interactions
currents. oscillatory ariplitude high relatively using
The standard lightning threat was taken to have an
amplitude of 200 kA and also to be associated with
peak rate of change of current of 100 kA/ps. While
of current were not rate of change amplitude and
was that tacit understanding the explicitely linked,
α standardized lightning threat, fbr indirect effects,
could be represented as shown in Fig. 13.8.
200
kA ι
Ssl6pe kA/us 100 =
ι_
0 2u
the of view early An 13.8 Fig.
standardized environment,
to felt were effects Resistive amplitude: by Scaling
(or even entirely) on the amplitude depend primarily
any current α case, In such current. of the lightning
suffice kA would 200 of amplitude peak α reached that
in an air- voltages generated the resistively predict to
for performing the justification then was craft. This,
kA) oscilla- 200 high (preferably tests with verification
tory current waves, even though the front time of such
α wave was much longer than the 2 ps of Fig. 13.8.
amplitude α peak 13.9, had Fig. surge current, If the
by be scaled would results then the 200 kA, than less
the amplitude of current.
200
sandard kA threat
Al
current
0
Fig. 13.9 Scaling amplitude. by
Scnkg by rato-of--ins: Inductive effects were felt to
depend primarily (or even entirely) on rate of change
of and that any current current that had α high (prefer-
ably rate of chaige would 100 kAM/σ) to pre- suffice
dict the inductively generated voltages. the surge If
current, Fig. α lesser rate of 13.10, had change, the
results would scaled in proportion be to the rate of
change of current.

200 standard threat
kA slope kA/us 100
Α2 = slope
Α2
α
0
current
Fig. 13.10 Scaling by rate-of-rise.
had scaling and testing to approach This Advantages:
approached the test amplitudes providing some merit
that of the full threat. For resistively generated volt-
ages it also had an advantage, real or supposed, that
fre- high by obscured were typically voltages response
quencies at early times, but not at later times. If the
test current was oscillatory, the late time oscillatory re-
sponse voltage could reasonably be considered "real"
be could component frequency high time early the and
considered "noise" in the measurement circuit.
Present thinking, however, is that much of the
early time high frequency component of voltage also
voltage. response "real" α represents
objection to simplified The biggest Disadvantages:
frequently was process the is that concepts scaling
justifica- is no there Fig. 13.11, far. In too pushed
(χ) as α predictor (β) or using either waveform tion in
(α). waveform response to of the
(α)
(β)
Α
Fig. 13.11 Unjustifiable extrapolation.
(α) Full threat
(β) Front too short
(χ) Duration too short
Constant waveshape: Scaling is most justifiable if the
test current has the same waveshape as the standard-
ized threat current, but has α lower amplitude, Fig.
Then 13.12. questions related to scaling by amplitude
or rate of change become moot since both amplitude
and rate of change are related the by same scale factor,
200
(13.1) Α.-
360