*in the shield, Fig. 15.26(β). This can be done with
grounding fingers of the type commonly used for single
conductor coaxial connectors such as the type N series.
introduce much less voltage into the Such connectors
conductois for the following reasons:
the path through which the shield 1. The length of
current must flow is shorter.
U2. The field intensity external to the shield is reduced
by virtue of the inherently larger diameter of the
path upon which the current flows.
nearly shield is low, inside the field intensity 3. The
zero.
path current diameter, larger shorter, and The
implies less self-inductance. The absence of magnetic
flux within the shield implies that the signal conduc-
tors are exposed to as much flux as is the shield: the
is nil. transfer inductance
IMAL PRAIUOWe
MO MD 1Α0510C LWa NM
HP40MUMTALHOWMCAMCIN OW
SUONAL
(α) •.•τ•field
PNGTAP.
(α) ID
AX N•OTAA CAURS
SML$WCURENT PA14 U'4,•,OW"Al.UIU
= Zh5
(β)
UTtMA 0*10"Response Τ !CCCUMV2N, oN
Fig. 15.26 Grounding of shields,
(α) Pigtails
(β) 360" peripheral
Shielding of Enclosures 15.10
Shielding performance of enclosures is usually dis-
Scus"δ in terms of the the frequency domain, with
shielding effectiveness related to materials, thicknesses,
411

gaskets and openings. Discussions of these effects are
given in many sources and will not be repeated here.
What will be discussed (in qualititive terms only, not
is the response to time domain magnetic quantitative)
duplicates some of the fields. Some of the material
more rigorous discussions of Chapters 11 and 12, but
is repeated here for completeness.
Origin of magnetic shielding by non-magnetic ma-
terials: Α magnetic field line that attempts to pene-
trate α conducting sheet, Fig. 15.27(α), induces cir-
culating currents that induce an opposing magnetic
field. The result is that α transient magnetic field ini-
only and sheet, Fig. 15.27(β), around the tially goes
field penetrate of the α portion will progresses as time
is α place even if the sheet sheet. This effect takes the
as aluminum. such non-magnetic material
conducting
sheet
tOALcirculating
currents
line
goes around
shee
(β)
Fig. 15.27 Magnetic field intersecting α
conducting sheet.
(α) Penetrating flux
Tangential flux (β)
an enclosure: of If α metal box is exposed
to the field, Fig. 15.28, current that flows around the
box is induced. In cross-section the field patterns will
be as shown in Fig. 15.29. As time prcgresses, the
field will penetrate the box, starting at the corners
and eventually passing directly through.
Internal current: In response to α step function mag-
netic field the induced current density on the inside
surface of the box will have the diffusion waveshape
discussed in §11.3.5 and illustrated in Fig. 15.30(δ).
The current density, multiplied by the resistivity of the