Assume that the leading and trailing edge sections
of α wing are nonconductive or sufficiently isolated
to be unavailable for conduction and that the remain-
ing wing box is comprised of skins and spars having
the dimensions as shown in Fig. 7.26. The cross sec-
tional area of the spars and skins forming this box
 2 135 cm (21 in'). The tank also contains an aluminum
vent pipe electrically bonded to the structure at each
end of the tank. This tube has an outside diameter
 10 cm (4 in), α 2 wall thickness of 0.5 mnm (0.02 in )
 2 2 and α cross sectional area of 1.56 cm (0.24 in ).
30cm vent 50CM 50Cm
0.64.Μ -- --
2Τ0χ χ 0
.200cm 0.2ra
Fig. 7.26 H~ypothetical wing box with integral
fuel tank.
Assume an intermediate strike with an average
amplitude of 2000 Α foi 5 ms, in accordance with Coin-
ponent Β of [7.28]. The current in the pipe can
calculated as follows:
 2 [ 1.56 cm .
 2 Ipipe σ [ 2000 Α = 23.1 Α (7.2) cm Ix
135
Currents of this order of magnitude have pro-
duced arcs at movable, poorly conducting, interfaces
in some couplings. More common examples of electric
arc sources include motor commutators.
are jumpers or straps bond Electrical straps: Bond
sometimes installed across poorly conducting pipe cou-
plings, as shown in Fig. 7.27. These bond straps
should not be relied upon to prevent sparking from
lightning currents. Current is apt to divide in propor-
tion to resistance which may be the result of α small
contact area in the coupling. Some current in the cou-
pling could lead to sparking even with the bond strap
in place.
EtEMI.Α.
IONDING
COUPLING
Fig. 7.27 Electrical bonding jumper across
insulated coupling,

0 Conduction through couplings and interfaces: The
as extensive use of anodized, coatings to provide noncor-
rosive mating surfaces in pipe couplings would seem to
preclude arcing across the pipe interface, but relative
motion between these surfaces can wear through the
is anodized coating, forming α conductive path. if there
happens to be α large, bare metal-to-metal contact
within the coupling, this could provide α spark free
of path. However, α slight change in the relative posi-
tion of the mating surfaces, or introduction of dirt or ,
residue might drastically change the electrical capabil-
ity of α coupling. It is probable that the electrical ca-
pability of α typical pipe coupling changes many times
by caused motion of relative result as α flight α during structural vibrations and flexing.
Some of the commercially available couplings and
bulkhead fittings have been designed to conduct im-
pulse currents up to 2500 amperes without sparking.
These couplings should be adequate for use in most
metal tanks where currents are of the order of α few
hundred amperes or less.
Fuel tanks fabricated of CFC materials, however,
are more highly resistive than aluminum. Currents on
be the exterior skin surface of such tanks will diffuse more
rapidly to internal conductive plumbing and currents
might greatly exceed 2500 amperes.
Guidelines for protection: In the absence of definitive
data on the electrical conductivity of pipe couplings
under in-service conditions, it is advisable to take the
following approach:
1. Determine, by analysis or test, the fraction of
lightning current expected in α particular pipe.
2. Inject this current into α sample of the coupling
under simulated in-flight vibration and contami-
nation conditions.
3. Perform this test in α darkened enclosure and ob-
serve whether any arcs or sparks occur. Repeat
the test until α reliable result is established.
One solution to the interfaces: Non-conducting
plumb- and couplings at and sparks of arcs problem
ing interfaces with aircraft structure is to insert elec-
to eliminate them as current carrying paths. This so-
lution, of course, requires additional couplings, which
may add additional weight compared to the traditional
all aluminum plumbing.
solution Another is to make the pipes of α non-
conductive material. Various solid polymers or fiber
reinforced resins may be used for this purpose. Some
electrical conducting material must be provided in the
interior linings of pipes transferring fuel however, to
198