Α true double exponential wave can only be pro- The breakdown voltage also depends strongly on
duced by α surge generator having one type of energy waveshape. In general, long duration voltages will
storage element, inductance or capacitance. If the gen.. cause breakdown of α gap at lower levels than will be
erator has two types of energy storage element; 1,hat is., required if the voltage is of short duration. Short du-
both inductance and capacitance, then α double expo- ration voltages may be sufficient to initiate the break-
nential is only an approximation of the actual output down process and to produce intense ionization (and
waveshape. Capacitive surge generators optimized for in the process draw large currents from the voltage
high voltages usually have inductances sufficiently low source), but may not last long enough to cause α com-
that the output can be described quite well by α double plete breakdown. Also, the current drawn by the de-
exponential. veloping breakdown may be so large that α consider-
able amount of the voltage initially applied to the gap
Current impulses: Current impulses used for evaluat- will be lost in the impedance of the test circuit exter-
ing low impedance surge protective devices often have nal to the gap. This loss of voltage may be sufficient
waveshapes that cannot be described by double expo- to prevent the gap from breaking down.
nentials, mostly because the inductance of the gener- Typical waveshapes that could be observed dur-
ators used to produce the surges is not negligible. Α ing breakdown testing with lightning impulse waves
common waveshape is shown on Fig. 1.10(β) and is are shown on Fig. 1.11. In the figure the shape of
described approximately as the voltage actually developed across the gap is shown
by the heavy line while the shape that the voltage
Io •-etsin(wt). (1.6) would have if it were iiot interrupted by the break- I=
down of the gap is shown dotted. This latter is called
Frequently the nature of the device under test is such the prospective voltage. Accepted terminology defines
that only the first half cycle of the current is produced. (FW) as those that do not lead to break- full waves
Α waveshape commonly used has an 8 ps front and α
20 ps tail. Α wave having that particular ratio of front
to tail time is not one that can be produced by α dou-
ble exponential surge generator, though it is routinely
produced by discharging an energy storage capacitor
(α)
through an inductive circuit.
No special attempt should be made to relate the
shape of surges used for testing insulation to the shape actual voltage
of the surges used for testing surge protective devices.
The relationship has very little to do with prospective the physical
characteristics of lightning or of naturally occurring
'-,voltage
surges; it is mostly α historical matter reflecting the
early development of the high voltage testing art and
the incorporation of common practices into standards.
Also, one should not consider that these wave-
shapes necessarily represent the shapes of natural
lightning currents or the voltages produced by light-
ning. They are intended to have the same general char-
acteristics (fast fronts and longer tails) and have time
scales typical of those produced by natural lightning,
but they are only standardized waveshapes used for
testing.
(C) Curves Volt-Time 1.5.3
Repeated applications of voltage do not always
produce the same pattern of flashover and if the volt- Fig. 1.11 Voltage waveshapes.
age is barely sufficient to cause breakdown, some ap-
Full wave (α) others anl cause breakdown of voltage will plications
will not. Breakdown is thus α statistical matter; if the (β) Tail chopped wave
voltage is low the probability of breakdown is low and (χ) Front chopped or steep
if the voltage is high the probability is greater, front wave
8