Are"
.Fig.
fuel Cell
Arcing 7.38 and sparking at fastener interfaces.
al- by The intensity of arcs may also be reduced
be among shared to current the or encouraging lowing
7.40. Fig. in shown is concept fasteners. This several
path,, current in a fasteners of number a large With
Light- be lower. will fastener one in any current the
fasten- ning currents do not divide evenly among all
ers in most designs, since overall current densities di-
rninish with distance away from lightning entry and
exit points. Reliable analysis methods are not readily
available to calculate the current distribution among
fasteners. Gross estimates can be made intuition, by
sufficient to design test specimens and establish appro-
priate current levels.
Arc Containmert 7.10.3
be certain design methods can noted earlier, As
of arcs at conductive reduce the intensity employed to
ignitions at These methods may prevent interfaces.
low to moderate current levels, but at higher levels
arc buiildup ma~y be sufficient to blow the a~rc pressure
products into the fuel vapcr space. For this reason, it
to enL~ploy a barrier between arc is generally necessary
sources and fuel vapor areas.

(b)
area on contact of fastener Effect 7.39 Fig.
arcing. density and current
density current high and area (a) Small
density current low and area Large (b)
Containment with tank sealant: The most common
method of containment is the addition of a fuel tank
sealant coating over the exterior surface of the fas-
teners. Advantages and disadvantages of sealant were
previously discussed in The basic principle is §7.6.3.
shown in Fig. 7.41. It must be emphasized that sealant
does not eliminate the arcs which occur, but merely'
contains the resulting products so that they do not
contact the flammable vapor space.
of the ap- increases as the thickness Protection
is a practical increased, though there plied sealant is
applied sealant which may be to the amount of limit
because of the weight which it adds to the aircraft
labor and material. The effectiveness and the cost of
skill of the opera- of overcoating depends upon the
be thoroughly coated and there tor. The fastener must
must be no voids or thinly coated areas.
207