the lightning 2A or 2B) where flash zones (Zones
the vent outlet? or sweep close to arc may attach
§7.5). If so, 5, §7.4 and (Chapter
or surge tank (a) Is an effective flame arrester
Has the effective- system used? protection
ness of this system been verified by test?
(§7.4).
tank sup- time of the surge Is the response (b)
the possible pression system shorter than
time from the sensor propagation flame
(§7.4). the extinguisher?
re- trips false from protected system the (c) Is
its in voltages lightning-induced from sulting
of nearby light the or from wiring electrical
flashes?
skins are u3ed, 4 If electrically non-conductive
sur- provided by protective adequate protection
(§7.9). face materials?
capable of conducting structure tank Is the fuel 5.
is itself the tank even if currents 3 lightning Zone
Has zone? swept flash or in a direct not located
simu- in which a test by demonstrated this been
through conducted are currents lightning lated
(§7.7). structure? tank complete
tank complete the of test lightning simulated If a 6.
individ- of its all feasible, have not is assembly
vents, drains, caps, filler doors, access joints, ual
for tested electrical systems been and plumbing,
cur- lightning simulated to conduct ability their
and (§7.5 of arcing? be free found to and rents
§7.7).
pro- fuel tanks the circuits entering electric 7. Are
(§7.7). induced voltages? tected against high
other wiring, away from been routed Have they
may be as navigation lamp circuits, which such
susceptible?
parts or exposed electrical 8. Are clearances between
the airframe sufficient any of them and between
from induced occurrence of sparks to prevent the
(§7.7). voltages?
been the tank inside circuits electrical the Have 9.
excessive induced so that adequately shielded
not occur? (17.7). voltages will
airworthiness certi- government 10. Have applicable
or other rilitary standards, ficat~on regulations,
lightning protection pertaining to specifications
to? (Chapter 5.) been adhered

for Fuel Test Techniques 7.14 Tests and
Systems
are systems for fuel appropriate of the tests Some
following sections. discussed in the
Electrical 7.14.1 Continuity Measurement of
and Resistance
have on fuel tank arcing Previous discussions
contact be- for good electrical the need to described
fuel line between elements and structural tween mating
elements structural with its interface and plumbing
For arcing. possibility of the to minimize order in
electrical contact adequate of assurance tanks, metal
mea- bonding electrical by performing be obtained can
conducting elements. appropriate surements between
may be performed using a Kelvin is These measurements
or equivalent. bridge
on electrical bonding, The military specification
bonding Class L that for [7.62], specifies MIL-B-5087B
volts of 500 in excess voltages protection), (lightning
of of currents during application be produced not shall
maximum the that implies specification kA. This 200
2.5 milliomas. be bonding resistance should
on com- made resistance measurements Bonding a
encountered not difficulties present structures posite
contact electrical While adequate structures. in metal
measure- and structure metal a between be made can
of finishes surface the contact by cleaning ment leads
con- parts of true is not same the contaminants, and
mate- CFC epoxy in The material. of CFC structed
mate- non-conductive is an electrically of course, rial,
conductive electrically with the bound integrally rial
yarns. graphite
prevent electrical therefore, may Surface resin,
A yarns. the graphite with from being made contact
may expose some the CFC surface light sanding of
or in intermittent yarns resulting graphite of the
If a fiat-surfaced test probe. a contact with marginal
only if will be obtained is used, a reading pointed probe
the graphite strands. contacts one of the probe point
of CFC will be adhesively structural elements Since
electricall) non- the majority of cases, the bonded in
bond line resistance will cause the conductive adhesive
depending the actual resistance be very high with to
made across the bond which contact is on the degree to
line
for composite bond- no specific guidelines To date
in have been included ing measurements MiI.-BO87B.
Individual Items 7.14.2 Teuts on
27, and parts 25, 23, Aviation Regulations Federal
be designed to that an aircraft fuel system 29 require
215