the points conductors of electrical context In the
can be considered as the ends of current carrying fila-
ments while the term "equal weight" implies that all
carry equal current. In this context the the filaments
of an irregular shaped conductor, or of α group GMR
of conductors in parallel, is the effective radius. The
concept is valuable since the self- inductance of any
conductor is equal to the mutual inductance between
two filaments separated by the That concept GMR.
is discussed further in §9.7.3.
Voltage and Current Concepts 9.6
electrical of concepts some that shows Experience
be, might they as well understood as not are circuits
field the in specialists not are that those by especially
im- more of the Some interactions. electromagnetic of
portant points are reviewed in the following sections.
Elements Constant Lumped 9.6.1
The relationships between 'oltage and current for
lumped constant circuit elements are well known.
Resistance
(9.42) ι= EIR
Inductance
E
jwL
E 1 (9.44) dt =
J
Λ
(9.45) = di/dt Λ E
Capacitance
(9.46) jwC ι =
(9.47) = ι C dE/dt
(9.48) φ dt I = ECf
of Integral Line the as Voltage 9.6.2
Potential
of po- The definition of voltage as the line integral
tential is less well appreciated. Voltage and potential
are different concepts. Α charged sphere, for example,
Fig. 9.4, will establish α field E in the surrounding re-
gion. The potential of the sphere cannot be established
independently; it can only be established by defining
some separate point as α reference potential. Com-

of potential α reference is assigned "ground" monly
zero and the potential of the sphere relative to α zero
potential ground is found by integrating the field along
Hypo- the path between the sphere and ground. Σ
thetically the integration can be done by connecting α
perfect voltmeter between the sphere and ground. The
resulting deflection of the meter defines the voltage of
the sphere, though for exactness, one should say that
the meter indicates the voltage of the sphere relative
to the ground.
+++
+ +
q + +
+ +
+
Σ
7 7 7 7 7 7 ρ 7 7 / /
Fig. 9.4 Voltage as total difference of potential.
Importance of the Path of Integration 9.6.3
Does the voltage depend on the path of integra-
tion or upon the path taken by the leads connecting
the voltmeter to the sphere and ground? This is not
for importance fundamental of is it question; trivial α
understanding how voltages develop in objects carry-
ing current, such as an aircraft carrying lightning cur-
rent.
For dc con- elements: constant and lumped DC
mea- the by taken path the that is answer the ditions
suring leads does not influence the voltage, but for ac
or transient conditions this is true only if the mea-
electromagnetic of free region α traverse leads suring
fields. As α practical matter this situation is found
only when measuring the voltage across lumped con-
electromagnetic the which in elements, those stant
element. the within enclosed entirely is field
As an example, the ac voltage developed across
be measured with- the winding of α transformer can
out regard to where one places the measuring leads
because the magnetic field inducing the voltage in the
windings is entirely (or nearly entirely) contained in
the core of the transformer. The external magnetic
field is negligible (ideally zero) and so not able to in-
duce any voltage in the measuring leads.
250