.
Chapter 5
THE
5.1 Introduction
the describe is to this chapter of purpose The
forth set requirements protection lightning craft
and other (FAA) Administra+ion Aviation the Federal
that steps the several discuss and to agencies,
require- these with to comply applicants by be taken
certify- FAA of the the role applicable, ments. Where
is discussed designated representative or engineer ing
design aircraft the of activities the to in addition
managers. certification and gineers
includes descriptions in this chapter The material
standards, specifications performance requirements, of
design steps. It does not include and procedural
of the succeed- or methodology, which are the subject
It is recommended that those respon- ing chapters.
be familiar with sible for design and certification
chapter before proceeding with a light- material in this
and efficiency ning design program, as the success
design depends considerably on the steps an overall
design. followed to achieve the
protection requirements and Aircraft lightning
lated standards have improved substantially in
they now address past decade, to the point where
lightning hazards and nearly all of the potential
corporate the known aspects of the lightning environ-
the aircraft protection requirements ment. Before this,
hazards, such [5.1] focussed on one or two potential
or antennas and other fuel tanks and access panels
such ternal" points of entry" while ignoring other areas
and spark sources or indirect effects on as internal arc
electrical and avionic systems.
are also being The requirements and standards
understand- updated periodically to reflect improved
lightning environment and the emer. ing of the natural
technologies, such as elec- gence of new aircraft design
control systems and advanced composite tronic
to adapt frames. This progress appears well positioned
via on-going technology to future trends as well,
writing activities among industry view and standards
and regulatory agency groups.
and certification The lightning protection design
proliferation of technical process has been aided by a
literature on aircraft lightning interaction mechanisms,
and verification methods. Much protection techniques
Sformation is summarized in this chapter and of this material
references to important sources of additional quent
are provided,

CERTIFICATION PROCESS
5.2 FAA Lightning Protection Regulations
air-
hazard safety a possible represents lightning Since by
aircraft, loss of the to may extend whose consequences
goal of the fundamental those aboard, lives of and the can
catastrophic prevent is to protection lightning aircraft
flying to continue aircraft the to enable and accidents,
airport, at a suitable to land be able and safely
en-
protection requirements Lightning and AC's: FAR's
of Fed- been included in the collection have therefore
Cir- Aviation Regulations (FAR's) and Advisory data eral
at ensuring that the above goal culars (AC's) aimed
certain acro- is met for all except experimental and
These regulations deal with the aircraft the batic aircraft.
whole, and more specifically with the fuel system as a
and essential systems. Specific of anld other flight critical
and rotorcraft regulations for each category of aircraft
Table 5.1 and reproduced in the following are listed in
As with most of the other US Federal Airwor- re- pages.
the thiness Regulations, they state a performance require-
include guidelines for compliance or ment, but do not
design requirements. In this manner in- specific technical
the FAR's allow the designer a maximum amount of
Emphasis is placed by the FAA on verifi- flexibility.
with the FAR's, in this case by as cation and compliance
often by test, that the designs do in ex- demonstrating,
fact provide the necessary protection.
Lightning protection requirements are included
Category Aircraft (Part in the FAR's for Transport
(Part 23), 25), Normal, Utility and Acrobatic Aircraft
as "General Aviation" which are herafter referred to
27 and for both categories of rotorcraft (Parts aircraft
pars- and 29), though some differences in applicable
fol- graph numbering and wording exist. Descriptions air-
lightning protection low. It will be noted that the
functional requirements that are com- re- regulations are
of the lightning envi- paratively brief. The intensity
of lightning strike occurences ronment, the frequency
enter or exit the aircraft and locations where strikes
regulations. are not provided in the protection
for design and certifi- The lightning environment
purposes is presented in Advisory Circu- FAA cation
[5.2, 5.31, along with definitions of lightning strike fre- lan
guidance for locating them on specific air- in- zones and
in §5.5. craft. It is also discussed
89