surge trigger the used to circuit in the be introduced
velocity for the slow order to compensate generator in
that ensure and to trigger cable in the of propagation
builds current before is triggered oscilloscope the
zero of amount small a Having aircraft. the in
data. analysis of the recorded can greatly ease available
to verify made be should Tests checks: Noise
sys- measurement the on shielding the of effectiveness
measure- the disconnecting by are made These tem.
dischhrging and wiring aircraft the leads from ment
by up picked is noise If no generator. surge the
confidence good have one can then system measuring
rep- truly oscilloscope the on displayed signal the that
wiring. aircraft response of the the resents
now are oscilloscopes Digital oscilloscopes: Digital
i • I3-5
,SLTA
Geaerator
from LTA
generator f-r-it
core input mount
oonneotors
output anm
hiul'tung In box (b) •Ltemral
(oto
(a) Triger trandru:•
v tiagge (4)
Fig. Mirthotlo of triggering. 13.22
0 transforiner (a) Trigger
Isolation transforner (b)

the because oscilloscopes over analog to be preferred
process- for further retrieved can be recorded signals
prob- the same subject to are oscilloscopes Digital ing.
should and oscilloscopes as analog pickup of noise up lems
way. same in the shielded be line
voltages and of lightning induced Measuremeats
a wide have that digital oscilloscopes require currents
re- When MHz. 30 - 100 of the order on bandwidth, the
care oscilloscopes of digital specifications the viewing
the of the bandwidth confuse to not taken be should
to bandwidth pertaining the with circuits input analog
os- MHz 20 of a measurement Accurate data. sampled the
several sampled be to wave the requires wave cillatory
re- would cycle per times 5 Sampling cycle. per times
discus- Other MHZ. 100 be to rate sampling the quire
digital measuring equipment on requirements for sions
[13.2]. in presented are
turns t cp
o
to'•-•
IsOcpe
u, s well
aul-tatd wifelt~
to
aircraft external
W~~~Jwife
(c)opticaisato
ý
(C) isolation optical
triggering Antenna (d)