electrical wiring. The attachment points and direct ef-
fects are pictured in Fig. 4.16(a) through (f) [4.16] and
are represented by a diagram in Fig. 4.17.
Sequence of events: The evidence suggests than th'e
flash included two or more strokes separated by a few
milliseconds of continuing current. Assuming, for pur.,
poses of explanation, that the Original lightning flash
approached the right wing tip, the probable sequence
of events was as follows: the initial point of attachment
was the right wing tip navigation light housing, Fig.
The current exploded the sender unit ground wire
but not the heavier filler cap ground braid, which was
only frayed. Sparks undoubtedly occurred inside, the
the filler fuel tank along the ground braid and'between
cap and its receptacle, but the fuel-air mixture in the
ullage of these half full tanks was probably too rich to
support ignition.
4.16(a). Current from this stroke entered the housing
ground wire and exploded both sections of it on the
way, to the right outboard metallic rib, as evidenced by
the absence of these wires and the blackened interior
shown in Fig. 4.16(b). Current continued through the
airframe to the left outboard rib and out the sender
unit ground wire to the sender unit, the base of which
is shown in Fig. 4.16(c). From there, the current fol-
lowed the filler gap ground braid and exted the air-
craft at the filler cap, Fig. 4.16(d).
Fig. 4.15 General aviation

Blast forces from stroke No.1 at the right naviga-
tion light housing also shattered the lamp globe and
bulb, as shown in Fig. 4.16(a). This shattering allowed
a portion of the first stroke current to ente& the right
navigation light power wire, exploding it between the
lamp and the outer rib, where the current jumped to
the rib and continued through the rest of the airframe
to the left sender unit groundwire.
Lightning current flowing in the navigation lamp
power wire elevated its voltage to seveial thousand
volts with respect to the airframe, a voltage high
enough to break down the insulation at the outer rib
feed through point, as shown in Fig. 4.17. Until break-
down occurred here, a few microseconds after the first
sufficiently high volt- stroke began, the wire was at
age to break down the insulation to the neighboring
sender wire. This breakdown occurred all along the
wire inside the right wing. The portion of the current
arcing into the sender wire caused a large voltage to
build up across the right wing tip fuel gauge magnet
inductance, to which this wire connects. This voltage
in turn sparked over the gap between the gauge termi-
nal and the nearest grounded housing wall, the arcing
badly damaging the gauge unit. While the navigation
light power wire was also exploded, it is probable that 0
this did not occur until thc second stroke.,
FIBERGLASS
NAVIGATION LIGHT
aircraft with plastic wing tips.
80