0
often at occur most other hand, on the effects, direct appar- recent years it has become In Indirect effects:
or within attachment of lightning near the points or other may cause to aircraft lightning strikes ent that
cur- lightning lie within that fuel tanks or structures else- located equipment to or effects, effects, indirect
This points. or exit entry strike between paths rent of operation the example, For aircraft. where in the
4.1. in Fig. is illustrated comparison been inter- has equipment navigation and instruments
fered with, and circuit breakers have popped in elec-
tric power distribution systems when the aircraft has
been struck by lightning. The causes of these indirect
effects are the electromagnetic fields and the struc-
tural voltage rises associated with lightning currents
INDIRECT
provide a though metallic skins in the aircraft. Even
EFCT
high degree of electromagnetic shielding, some of these
fields may penetrate through windows or seams and in-
duce transient voltage surges in the aircraft's electrical
wiring. The resistances of structural joints and non-
metallic structures permit voltages to occur between
equipment locations in the aircraft. These surge volt-
ages in turn may damage or upset electrical or elec-
tronic equipment.
Trends that increase potential hazard: To date, few
aircraft accidents can be attributed positively to the DIRECT
in trends two are there but lightning, of effects indirect EFFECTS
aircraft design which threaten to aggravate the prob-
lem unless specific protective methods are incorpo-
rated in system equipment designs. The first of these Fig. 4.1 Areas of direct and indirect effects.
trends is the increasing use of miniaturized, solid state
protecting Before discussing the techniques for in aircraft electronics and electric power components
effect, it is type of lightning aircraft against either efficient, lighter in These devices are more systems.
review some of the common examples powerful than their worthwhile to weight, and far more functionally
vacuum tube or electromechanical predecessors, and of each which occur on today's aircraft. The purpose
they operate at much lower voltage and power levels, of this review is to remind the aircraft designer of ar-
Thus, they are inherently more sensitive to overvolt- eas needing particular attention and to alert pilots to
age transients, such as those produced by the indirect what to expect when lightning strikes occur in flight.
effects of lightning. Detailed discussion of the causes of each effect, includ-
The second trend is the increasing use of rein- ing the lightning flash characteristic most responsible
forced plastics and other nonconducting materials in and its quantitative relationship to damage severity, i
place of aluminum skins, a practice that reduces the deferred until protective measures are discussed, be-
electromagnetic shielding previously furnished by the ginning with Chapter 6.
highly conductive aluminum skin. This reduced shield-
Direct Effects 4.2 on Metal Structures ing may greatly increase the level of surges induced in
wiring not protected by other means. Because elec-
tronic systems were being increasingly depended upon Metal structures include the outer skins of the air-
for safety of flight, the National Aeronautics and Space craft together with internal metallic framework, such
Administration, the Federal Aviation Aministration, as spars, ribs, and bulkheads. Because lightning cur-
and the Department of Defense initiated research pro- rents must flow between lightning entry and exit points
grams, beginning in 1967, to learn how to measure on an aircraft and because these currents tend to
or predict the levels of lightning induced voltages and spread out as they flow between attachment points, us-
how to protect against them. A considerable amount ing the entire airframe as a conductor, the aluminum
of research has been conducted since by government with which most of these structures are fabricated pro-
and industry organizations. vides excellent electrical conductivity. As a result, the
Since the indirect effects originate in the aircraft's current density at any single point in the airframe is
electrical wiring, their consequences may show up any- rarely sufficient to cause physical damage between en-
where within the aircraft, such as at equipment loca- try and exit points. Only if there is a poor electrical
tions remote from the lightning flash attachments. The bond (contact) between structural elements in the cur-
70