which is necessary and fasteners, layers protection
electro- afford to intended is also layer protection the
A typical systems. on-board of shielding magnetic
illustrated door access bay the avionics is plication
protection the that Good shielding requires Fig. 6.52.
edges, on all structure surrounding to be bonded ply
removable fas- by the is accomplished This shown. as
on hinge the piano-type by edges on the teners
edge. fourth
Structures Boron 6.6
consider- time under at one were materials Boron
in them Interest structures. for composite ation
in be considered to not likely are and they waned
on such the research completeness, but, for future,
here. reviewed be briefly terials will
6.6.1 Lightning Effects on Boron Composites
began [6.271 Plumer and Penton, Fassell,
composites on boron effects lightning of study
boron single in a process degradation of the study a
deposition by formed are filaments These filament.
tung- diameter in) (0.0005 mm a 0.13 on boron of
sheath, The boron substrate. the called filament sten
about is strength, the filament's provides which
diameter. in in) (0.005 mm
door. access bay Avionics 6.52 Fig.
and via fastners Peripheral bonding
shielding. electromagnetic for

is substrate The tungsten damage: of if Mechanism I
boron of the resistance the but conductor, a resistive
Thus, of magnitude. orders by several greater is much ap-
will tend composite a boron entering currents electric in
the of in instead substrates the tungsten in to flow
boron.
coefficient temperature has a positive Tungsten
temperature as its that, means which of resistivity, the
and it becomes as well, increases its resistivity rises,
rise temperature When flows. current as hotter even
integral action current of a function as calculated is
6.53 Fig. of rise curve temperature the 6.5, Eq. by
f the to equal of course, is, The quantity results. has 1Pdt
of ohm (per substrate in the dissipation energy unit the
the electric upon solely dependent and is resistance) ma-
pulse waveform. and amplitude current
temperature little very that 6.53 shows Fig.
 2 rise occurs as I is increased 2 to 20 x 10-' A f dt .s.
moderate cause this value beyond increases However, the
x 100 beyond increases and increases, temperature with
 2 Fas- rise. temperature in extreme .s result A 10-6
be- currents injected [6.27] Plumer and Penton, sell,
2 found and filaments single into A .s 10' x 100 yond
1.3
+I
+ +
is hinge
156