inductance of the tape-wound shield was calculated
as 3.9 pH/μ, of the order greater than the mutiinl 104
inductance obtained for α braided-wire shield.
for are most often used trays: Cable trays Cable
chanical protection of wires, but if viewed as shields,
they may also provide electrical protection. The char-
acteristics of α cable tray that make for good electrical
protection are the same as those of any other shield:
1. It must be able to carry current along its axis.
material. low-resistance of be should It 2.
3. It should completely surround the conductors,
implying that the tray should be fitted with α
conducting cover, making good electrical contact
along its entire length.
4. It should have α miiimum number of openings
through which magnetic fields may leak.
5. It should have as few joints as possible, and such
joints should be made in such α manner as to
vide minimum resistance and leakage of magnetic
fields.
The transfer characteristics of the tray by itself
would be about the sane as those of the solid tubular
shields discussed previously. This comparison assumes
the tray to be of solid metal and fitted with α well
sealed cover. Since covers never form perfect seals,
the pulse penetration time constant would probably
not be as long as predicted by Eq. 11.24. Even with
an imperfect cover, the transfer impedance Zr would
not be greater than the dc resistance.
Trays are most commonly built in short sections
and joined by splices or transition sections. Such sec.
tions frequently provide for thermal expansion and
contraction and are, at any rate, seldom designed
ther to provide good electrical continuity or to pro-
tect against magnetic leakage. When joints are con-
sidered. the transfer characteristic of the tray is fre,.
quently found to depeud almost entirely on the treat-
ment of the joints. Leakage at joints can be red! iced
covering them with flexible tape or metal braid. The
transfer characteristics can seldom be determined
calculation; they must be determined experimentally.
Condults: Conduits in aircraft work are muat com-
monly used only for mechanical protectioii of wires
should and not be relied upon for electromagnetic field
shielding unless it has been verified that the conduit
at is electrically continuous and grounded each end.
More commonly, conduits we mounted in rubber
sulated mounting brackets and so are not grounded,

0
15.7 Transfer Characteristics of Actual
Cables
The transfer impedance of α shielded cable is not
by the manufac- specified either me- α factor commonly
Wurer or by procurement specifications. Even among
cables of the same nominal type, this transfer imped-
ance may vary considerably between the cables sup-
plied by different manufacturers. The most straight-
forward method of determining the transfer character-
istic of α shielded cable, particularly if the cable in-
impedances load multiple and shields multiple voives
on conductors within the shield, is to make actual mea-
surements of the conductor voltages that are produced
by currents which are circulated through the shield.
The techniques by which transient currents may be
injected into the shields of cables through coupling
transformers axe described in Chapter 18.
If actual measurements of coupling effects are not
available, the transfer characteristics of many cables
can be estimated from other published literature. One
such summary giving the parameters of coaxial cable
pro- shields is shown in Table 15.1 [15.91.
Connectors 15.8
Transfer impedance: The transfer impedance of α ca- 6
ble connector or splice can be represented by
(15.7) R, + jwL1 ZT = 2
where R. is the resistance measured across the con-
nector and Λ is α transfer inductance between the
12
external shield circuit and the internal conductors of
the cable. The value of is usually not calculable, ZT
but it can be measured by passing current through α
cable sample containing the connector and measuring
the open circuit voltage induced on conductors inside
ei- the shield. Some typical values of and have R. Li
2
been measured on cable connectors and are listed in
Table 15.2.
The transfer impedance of α connector is α lumped
element in the cable circuit, in contrast to the dis-
by tributed nature of the transfer impedance of the cable
shield. The effect of leakage through the connector can
by thus be represented by α discrete voltage source
V - lgT (15.8)
where is the shield current. I
admittance: Transfer Because most connectors that
would be used for shielded cables have essentially 100%
optical coverage, their transfer admittance is usu.
in- ally negligible. In addition, most bulkhead or panel-
mounting connectors are located at points where the
408