12.24, however, is probably a realistic estimate of the
current that would flow on such short circuits.
at frequen- are oscillatory voltage and current The
cock- cies that can be related to the dimensions of the
the response appears in than one frequency pit. More
different several cavity can exhibit cockpit since the
modes of oscillation. Cavity oscillations are discussed
further in Section 12.12.
4U
-20
III
Time (ns)
Fig. 12.23 Voltage on wire inside cockpit.
. •f~RT . |0
too.,
"Vl-
-u. -
", !00 ISO mIN
Time (no)
Fig. 12.24 Current on wire inside cockpit.
Subgrids Nested 12.11.3
A third way to solve these types of aperture is
to use a nested subgrid approach. In this approach,
the aperture is gridded with a finer mesh than the
rest of the aircraft. This results in a coarsely grid-
ded large problem space in which is "nested" a finer
gridded volume. This nested volume resolves the fine
features of the aperture and is solved simultaneously
and self consistently with the larger volume. Thus,
no inherent approximations to the physics am made.
.
The approach is numerically difficult, because of the
requirements of interpolating in time and space at the
interface of the nested subgrid with the main program.
No application of this technique to apertures has
been published in the open literature as far as is
349

known, but it has been applied with good results to
the resolution of fine structures on aircraft for the ex-
concept - 12.24]. The problem [12.22 ternal coupling
is illustrated in Fig. 12.25 , which shows the finely
more nested within the of a Learjet gridded wing tip
[12.22]. gridded volume coarsely
Fig. 12.25 Nested subgrid.
Brute force approach: It should also be noted that
a "brute force" approach can be applied, in which the
aperture, cavity, and aircraft are all solved in the same
problem space with a small enough grid to resolve the
aperture and cavity. This is feasible with sufficient
computational resources and has been done for an air-
craft cockpit [12.25]. The technique has been applied
to an aperture in a cylinder and favorably compared
to measured data [12.26].
other one Finally, solution: 2D to corrections 3D
approach to the cavity-backed aperture problem that
has been used is to apply a three dimensional (3D)
correction factor to a two-dimensional (2D) aperture
[12.26]. In this approach, a cavity-backed aperture
(e.g. a cockpit) can be modeled in two dimensions by
a Laplace's equation method and a field distribution
can be obtained. Measurements of 3D apertures with
the same cross section dimensions (in 2D) can give a
correction factor which relates the 3D-aperture excita-
tion to the 2D-excitation. Thus, a family of curves can
be developed and a solution for future apertures car.
be done in 2D along with application of a correction
factor. This method could give a good approximation
to the low- frequency or late-time solution, but cavity
or aperture resonances would not be included.