Chapter 1
INTRODUCTION AN TO HIGH VOLTAGE PHENOMENA
Introduction 1.1
and the distance physical dimensions of the electrodes phe- and high current is α high voltage Lightning
nomenon and those who would deal in protection between them.
against it should have some basic understanding of the Under the influence of light and other radiation,
physics involved. This chapter is intended to introduce such as Ξ-rays, cosmic rays or radioactive decay, elec-
the reader to the general physical nature of electrical trons will be emitted from the negative electrode, or
sparks and arcs, and to provide some data on spark cathode. Electrons may also be released in the gas
breakdown characteristics of various electrode config- by the radiation. At low levels of voltage, or electric
urations. Partly, the material is given to introduce field, all the electrons will drift towards the positive
the subject of lightning phenomena and partly to il- electrode, or anode, and be collected. For α consider-
lustrate some of the factors that must be considered able range of voltages, region 2 of Fig. 1.1, the current
during tests to simulate the effects of lightning. An will remain constant, but the discharge will not be self-
understanding of high voltage phenomena is also im- sustaining since the current will cease if the ionizing
portant when discussing when and where aircraft are illumination of the cathode is removed.
struck by lightning and an understanding of high cur-
rent arc phenomena is important when designing air-
craft surfaces to withstand the effects of lightning.
The literature on high voltage phenomena is vast
and no attempt will be made to give α comprehensive anode pub- in found be to are works the of Most review.
. Some industry. power at the electric aimed lications
specific works that deal with the subject will be cited, +
but since the following material is only α review, no source
attempt will be made to cite references for each point gsionization
discussed. Some specific works that might be reviewed .
include [1.1] for α general review of the mechanism of .................
breakdown through long air gaps, [1.2 - 1.4] for α very
comprehensive review of recent investigations on the (α) cathode
subject, [1.5] for α general review of gas discharge phe-
nomena and [1.6] for α review of breakdown voltages
of long air gaps.
σ llapse C o Initial Ionization Effects . 1.2 self sustaining voltae arge isch δ
In the study of gas discharges, it is customary to
non-self sustaining general types: those two into the phenomena divide
that are, and those that are not self sustaining. Com- /I,,/ disoharge
plete breakdown of α gas, or the formation of α spark -,
between two electrodes, is α transition from α non- . I
self-sustaining discharge to one of several types of self- 1 , 2 1 3 1
v (β) , , with explosive Usually it occurs discharge. sustaining v, phenomena in- the of some illustrate To suddenness.
volved, consider Fig. 1.1, which shows how the current Fig. Current-voltage 1.1 relations in
between two electrodes immersed in α gas depends on pre-spark regions.
space be- In the the electrodes. voltage between the
configuration Electrode (α) E field an electric be will there electrodes, the tween
V-I characteristics (β) voltage, the proportional to the applied magnitude of