and Redistribution Diffusion 11.6 on only one on field external to the exposed !ffectively
Structures CFC are the cavity of walle inner the because either face,
the other from shielding more to provide enough thick
much is cavity the because or field external the of parts re- been have chapter this in discussions Previous
of any is to it than surfaces external the of one to closer Car- isotropic. but lossy, are which to materials lated
be would cavity typical Α surfaces. cxternal the other are, in general, materials CFC, composite, 'bon. fiber
along located bay equipment electronic an or bay α gun aircraft in used commonly materials CFC anisotropic.
the through accessible aircraft and the of fuselage the ; of conductivities have typically 104 construction
access the of effects the moment the For panels. access The surface. the to tangential directions in mhos/μ
Fig. in is shown geometry The ignored. be will panels direc- specific the to according may vary conductivity
11.40(α). certain in woven be may strands graphite the since tion
those direc- in strength physical to increase directions
α factor more than is seldom but the difference tions,
surface,,. to the normal In the direction of about two.
mhos/μ be ; 50 may only conductivity the however, -
insulated are material of CFC layers various the since CAVITY
/ "- epoxy resin. other by each from - -
materials CFC of studies been many have There
-
gen- The - 11.28]. [11.7 properties shielding their and
for conditions is that of these studies conclusion eral
con- the only surfaces, flow on CFC current of uniform
to the that tangential is matters which really ductivity -,.AA '
the ex- exception of that with the This means surface.
to CFC exampies apply other §11.3.6, the ample in
tangential conductivity uses the if one only structures TO F1910 ANM F.,.ACEDMO
surfaces. the to cUmwe
The example of §11.3.6 may not apply to aniso- (β)
CAVITY ther 'ε in that example materials, because, tropic CFC
was α significant conduction of current normal to the ,UCRICFOR
surface. , -. Τ and transfer of surface The usual definitions τ,,SUA,
Τ ap- may also not 11.12) 11.10 and (Eqs. impedances - N PII I I
to flow able being current on based are they since ply,
is "may" word the reason The surface. normal to the
to direction normal in the the conductivity is that used
surface may depend on current density. For low level
IUA one surface from epoxy resin may insulate the currents, -- CINoINTHOa,-
gradi.. voltage the currents high level but for another,
field on only to α cavity exposed Α 11.40 Fig. sparking cause internal to high enough be ents may
one side. to increase would tend Such sparking layers. between
field orientations Cavity and (α) time the both during layers. between the conductivity
reflecting surfaces in the An image (β) afterwards. and is flowing lightning current when
the cavity defining
Cavities 11.7 Fields Within (χ) the loop inductance Path defining
viewed may be cavity The path- current Internal
the exter- exposed to from one face as being formed field that the electric it was observed In §11.3.5 .
that field, producing current and the field nal magnetic in surface, of α shielding the inside developed along
sheets, which, by metal formed other faces with its and the outside, field on or magnetic to α current response
to- to extend be assumed surface, may the exposed the like by cavity enclosed around the α current excites
defin- surface reflecting in the Mirrored ward infinity. in the that happens frequently It surface. shielding
of the face will be an image the cavity ing the back of that is be α cavity there will an aircraft of fuselage
320