down, chopped waves or tail (CW) as chopped waves
those causing breakdown after the voltage has begun
to decay and (SF) or front steep front chopped waves
reaches wave the before breakdown cause that as those
its peak prospective voltage.
If repeated applications of voltage are made, start-
ing initially at α low level and then increasing, there
can be found α level below which no breakdowns occur,
the withstand (WS) level. At α somewhat higher level
If always. not but sometimes, occur will breakdowns
where is found α level further, still is raised voltage
the crit- breakdown, cause of the impulses 50 percent
ical flashover (CFO) level. That peak voltage level is
designated TJ50, from the German Uberspannung or
overvoltage.
With short gaps, up to about 10 - 20 cm, the
breakdowns will occur at the peak of the voltage wave,
but with α sufficiently long gap the breakdowns will oc-
cur after the voltage has reached its peak and started
to decay. If the voltage is raised still further break-
down occurs at earlier times, perhaps before the volt-
age has reached its peak prospective voltage. Con-
necting the breakdown points results in α volt-time or
time-lag curve, Fig. 1.12. For breakdowns that occur
after the voltage has begun to decay the point plot-
ted is the maximum voltage and the time at which
breakdown occurs. Fig. 1.13 shows volt-time curves
measured on various lengths of transmission line insu-
lators. Note that the critical flashover voltage is about
550 kV/μ and that much higher voltages are required
to produce breakdown at short times. This suggests
that breakdown is α process that does not take place
instantaneously. Research indicates that this is so.
time-lag curve
"• .-- prospective
voltage
€ 'τ-α
voltage
WS -is
_
or of α volt-time Development Fig. 1.12
time -lag curve,
lw0

length insulation
em
3 5μ
4μ
4μ
3μ
2μ
1μ
6 5 4 3 2 1 0
time to breakdown us
Fig. 1.13 Volt-time curves for transmission
line insulators [1.61.
1.5.4 Streamer Development
When α long air gap (length greater than about
0.5 μ) is stressed with α positive or negative impulse
voltage and the flashover observed with α camera that
is able to observe the stages of the breakdown process,
it is found that there are several fairly distinct stages
in the process. These are the formation of an initial
corona, growth of α leader, and α final jump which
culminates in the development of α highly conducting
channel.
Initial corona. The initial burst of corona takes place
from the energized electrode as soon as the electric
field at the tip of the rod reaches about 30 kV/cm and
usually this takes place before the applied voltage has
reached its maximum value. The corona forms in α
small fraction of α microsecond and propagates away
mi- meters per several rapidly, very electrode the from
crosecond (mi/ps). This corona discharge, however,
does not go across the entire gap between the elec-
trodes unless the electrodes are close together, perhaps
25 cm. If the voltage were to be removed the discharge
would stop and there would be no breakdown.
Streamer: If the voltage is of sufficient magnitude and
maintained, α more intense and more localized dis-
charge called α streamer develops out of this initial
corona and works its way towards the grounded elec-
trode in α manner very similar to that of lightning,
as discussed in Chapter 2. Initially this leader propa-
gates at several centimeters per microsecond (cm/ps),
and carries corona, does the initial much slower than
α current of about 100 Α.