Magnetically induced voltages: Other fields may 2. Full authority electronic flight control (Fly-by-
I
arise inside the aircraft when lightning current diffuses wire) systems.
to the inside surfaces of skins. In either case these
internal fields pass through aircraft electrical circuits 3. Supervisory control steps capable of initiating
and induce voltages in them proportional to the rate control inputs that could endanger flight safety.
of change of the magnetic field. These magnetically
induced voltages may appear between both wires of α 4. Fully or highly integrated cockpit instruments and
two-wire circuit, or between either wire and the air- displays.
frame. The former are often referred to as line-to-line 5. Electronic flight instrumentation (EFIS) systems.
voltages and the latter as common-mode voltages.
6. Aircraft electric power control and distribution
systems. induced these to IR addition In voltages: Structural
voltages, there may be resistive voltage rises along the 7. Electrical/avionic systems that include externally
airframe as lightning current flows through it. These mounted apparatus, such as air data probes,
are called structural IR voltages. If any part of an heaters, actuators and antennas.
aircraft circuit is connected anywhere to the airframe,
these structural 'R voltages may appear between cir-
and cuit wires and the airframe, as shown in Fig. 4.20. Relation to EMI EMC: Indirect effects of light-
For airframes made of highly conductive aluminum, ning are part of the broad subject of electromagnetic
these voltages are seldom significant except when the interference (EMI) and control (EMC). The EMI and
lightning current must flow through resistive joints or EMC standards in industry wide use, however, do not
hinges. However, the resistance of steel or titanium is deal with the indirect effects of lightning. Neither do
10 times that of aluminum, and the resistance of most aircraft industry performance standards, such as DO-
CFC structures is over α hundred times the resistance 160 published by the Radio Technical Commission for
of comparable aluminum structures, so the structural Aeronautics (RTCA) [4.23]. Efforts are underway to
IR voltages in aircraft fabricated of these materials add meaningful lightning indirect effects environments
may be much higher. to the family of EMI/EMC I standards, but significant
differences exist between the two environments.
Other aspects of indirect effects: Magnetically in- Α major difference is that lightning induced tran-
duced and structural IR voltages orcur simultaneously sients are best characterized as α time domain phe-
in nearly all wiring within an aircraft during α light- nomenon, while classical EMI/EMC concerns relate
ning strike, so the potential exists for multiple effects to the frequency domain. Susceptibility to excessive
on avionic systems. For example, four channels of voltages or currents and susceptibility to narrow band
α quadruplex redundant digital flight control system interference or emission are not the same thing and
might all be damaged at the same time, if protection protection against one does not necessarily imply pro-
against indirect effects is not incorporated. Safe op- tection against the other.
erations of such systems in the lightning environment
cannot be achieved by relying only on redundant sys- Coordination of standards: Coordinated standards
tems. are unlikely in the near future. Therefore, separate
be must criteria and protection concern: efforts of dedicated Systemns and re- concern Systems of greatest
criti- of flight protection successful achieve to applied following, the include effects garding indirect
cal/essential systems against lightning indirect effects.
1. Full authority, digital engine control (FADEC) Design of protective measures against indirect effects
systems. is treated in Chapters 8 through 18.
0
86