Measurements of induced voltages: Newman,
and Stahmann [7.53] measured about 11 V on the
quantity probe circuits routed inside α KC-135 wing
fuel tank through which 50 kA strikes with 50
rates of rise were being conducted. This voltage
extrapolate to α maximum of 44 V at α severe
amplitude of 200 kA. Plumer [7.54] measured up
V in α fuel probe circuit routed inside the tanks of
F-89J wing. The simulated lightning current in
case was 40 kA, with α rate of rise of 8 kA/ps.
these results he predicted that α 200 kA, 100 kA/jps
lightning strike would induce 185 V in the same circuit.
These voltages are not sufficient to cause
sparking. These measurements were made on
aircraft and similiar measurements on CFC structures
would result in substantially higher levels.
Routing of wires: The routing of the fuel probe
can have α lot to do with how much induced voltage
pears at apparatus inside fuel tanks. Α comprehensive
discussion of shielding practices is given in Chapters
15, and 17. 16
7.10 Elimination of Ignition Sources
The previous sections have described some of
more likely potential sources of ignition and have
scribed ways to prevent them. In the following
tions, some overall design approaches are discussed
which can be followed to reduce or eliminate poten-
tial ignition sources. These approaches involve
lection of basic structural materials, modifications
the airframe structural design, and methods to
vent contact between any remaining ignition sources
and fuel vapors. Successful implementation of
measures requires the lightning protection specialist
to work closely with airframe and structures design-
era and manufacturing technologists at α very
point in the design cycle. Structural design modifi-
cations to minimize lightning protection problems
result in substantial savings in weight and cost penal-
ties due to lightning protection. but these benefits can
not be obtained unless the designs are incorporated
early in the design cycle. Structures designs must
isfy many requirements and some of the features
would alleviate potential lightning problems may
be compatible with these other requirements.
The following design approaches should be
lized, to the extent practical, to minimize potential
ignition sources within aircraft fuel tanks.
1. Designing the fuel tank structure to minimize
number of joints, fasteners and other potential
and spark sources in fuel vapor areaq.

Robb, 2. Providing adequate electrical conductivity be-
fuel tween adjacent parts of structures.
Providing 3. α barrier to separate remaining arc or
kA/ps spark products from the fuel vapor.
would
strike 4. Design of fuel system components to interrupt po-
to 4 tential current paths and withstand potential dif-
an ferences that may exist during lightning strikes to
this the airframe.
7.10.1 Tank Structures Design From
As illustrated in the foregoing sections, most igni-
any tion sources are associated with structural joints and
metal fasteners of various kinds. As much as possible, joints
and fasteners should be eliminated in fuel vapor areas.
If they cannot be eliminated, they should be designed
so that they do not spark. If sparks cannot be com-
wires pletely eliminated, the fastener must be sealed so that
ap- the sparks do not contact the vapor. Several design
approaches are possible.
Eliminating penetrating fasteners: Figs. 7.31 - 7.33
show how wing spars and ribs can be rearranged to
eliminate penetrations of fasteners into the fuel tank.
This approach may eliminate possible fuel leaks at
the fasteners as well as eliminating ignition sources,
the though the possibility of leaks due to bowing of the
de- closeout rib would have to be considered. Care must be
sec- given to ensuring that the edges of spars and the rib-
to-skin interfaces do not present arc or spark sources
themselves. This is usually done by use of electri-
se- cally insulating, corrosion resistant finishes, as well as
in sealant materials between parts. Also, polysulfide type
pre- sealant is sometimes necessary at fillets and edges, as
discussed in §7.6.3.
these The approaches illustrated in Figs. 7.31 through
7.33 are applicable to CFC as well as to metal struc-
tures. Lightning currents in fasteners in struc- CFC
early tures may be higher than those in aluminum struc-
tures because diffusion times in CFC are much shorter
can than in aluminum and more current will seek to flow
in interior structural elements such as ribs and spars.
Also, it is usually more difficult to make arc free elec-
trical contact between CFC parts. Thus these design
sat- approaches may be more necessary in CFC airfraries
that than for aluminum airframes.
not Likewise, the lightning current densities in air-
frames of small size, general aviation aircraft and small
uti- rotorcraft, will be proportionally higher than the cur-
rent densities in larger transport category vehicles ex-
posed to the same total amount of lightning current.
Design approaches such as shown in Figs. 7.31 through
the 7.33 can be followed to eliminate potential ignition
are sources in small integral tank structures.
.02