Chapter 18
TEST TECHNIQUES FOR EVALUATION OF INDIRECT EFFECTS
18.1 Introduction
The purpose of this section is to discuss some of most common type of test, Fig. 18.1(α), involves corn-
the existing test techniques for evaluation of indirect mon mode injection of transients, but differential in-
effects on electrical and electronic equipment, and to jection, Fig. 18.1(β) can also be done.
suggest possible avenues of improvement in some of
Equipment under that might be performed these test techniques. Tests
(EUT) Text most but described, are individual circuit elements on
of the material will deal with tests that might be made . - - I
upon individual pieces of electronic equipment or upon Trnit!nenaI
interconnected electronic subsystems. Generato~rciutrI
J - complete and evolving still are techniques Test
standardization has not yet been achieved. Practices
discussed in standards and specifications may not yet
address all the necessary aspects of lightning indi-
under (α)Equpment and con- Ambiguities and interactions. rect effects
flicts between standards and specifications abound.
Often, purchase specifications refer to inappropriate ρ " --
standards and call for tests that have little technical Tasetinternal
and Transient circuitry ι justification may result in excessively costly test
.Λ___J Λ pGenerator
Some test equipment is available commercially,
in in equipment fabricated involves testing but most -
dividual testing laboratories. Standards and guides do F ( ) γ-.1 Pi in-τ-te σ
not yet exist that give specific construction details for (β) Fig, 18.1 Pin injection tests.
test equipment and as result α different laboratories (α) Common mode injection
may employ quite different equipment to perform the (β) Differential injection
same general type of test.
Tests may involve injection of specified voltages
18.2 Types of Test or specified currents, though care must be taken in
specifications to avoid wording that can be interpreted
The various types of test that might be performed as requiring α specified voltage to be developed across
on aircraft electronic systems are described, in general α lead that is shorted to ground or requiring α specified
terms, in the following material. Detaif 'am conducting current to flow into α lead that prements an open circuit
some of these tests discussed are in later sections. or high impedance. Such erroneous specifications can
be avoided by specifying the transient in terms of its
Inmjecdo 18.2.1 Ph of Traswents open circuit voltage, and its short circuit current, as
discussed in §18.5, or in terms of equivalent generator
Direct injection transients into of the input and source impedance.
output terminals devices, of Fig. 18.1, is an appro. Techniques for pin injection test are discussed fur-
way priate of determining whether the equipment will ther in §18.5.
be damaged by transients, but is generally not an ap-
propriate method of for testing circuit upset since the 18.2.3 Μ'ransformer Injection
low impedance transient genertor may adversly lead
the circuits under test, Furthermore, verification of Trasformer injection might logically be consid-
Smultiple individual circuit and component damage tolerance to ered as α simulation of magnetic field effects, but it
the specified test level becomes less certain due to the is useful whenever transient tests must be done on an
current paths in interconnected circuits. The interconnected system, whatever might be the source
467