Fig. 6.5(b), and is applicable to CFC skins as well as
metal ones. Fine wire screens and paint primers filled
with chopped metal fibers have been effective in labo-
greater than though this method requires ratory tests,
during surface the of maintenance and care average
the aircraft's life cycle. It is not presently in wide use.
Protection multiple by layers: A third method is to
laminate thin metal skins with a non-conductive ad-
hesive (most structural adhesives are non-conducting).
Laboratory testing has shown that the melting activity
inner the with of metal, ply exterior to the is limited
ply remaining undamaged. The principle is illustrated
in Fig. 6.5(c). The outer ply burns away, but in do-
ing so separates from the inner ply and moves the arc
ply. inner the from away released, is heat where root,
Vaporization of the adhesive layer probably releases
gasses which push the outer layer away. In effect, the
outer layer is sacrificed to protect the inner ply.
As an example, an exterior ply of 0.5 mm (0.020
in) aluminum bonded to an inner ply of 0.75 nun (0.030
in) aluminum will sustain the same lightning environ-
meet as a single sheet of 2 mm (0.080 in) aluminum.
Since melting of holes in metal skins is so impor-
tant to protection of fuel systems these studies are cov.
ered further in Chapter 7.
""
JIm]
|Imh,•ls0us~
14e.04a u"u,.Oi 0
Ida.
.. Msiexamples.
Sthe
-
a - ming tJ
Fig. 6.4 Area of holes melted through
aluneinure and titanium skins.
120

(a) paint
aluminum unpainted
(.000 thk) tbk) (.060 a1iItu
Ij
.-.........
(b)
pain ......... ..
-afrminum
lightning
paint
(
adhesive
mm 0.75
(0.020 in) (0.030 in)
Fig. 6.5 Methods of protecting against melt-through.
(a) Increasing skin thickness
(b) Arc root dispersion
(c) Laminated skins
6.2.2 Resistive Heating
As current passes through the resistance of a
metal conductor, it will generate heat. Resistive heat-
ing of metal skins by lightning current will never pro-
duce temperatures high enough to be of concern, be-
cause cross-sectional area will always be ample, but
heating of conductors with small cross-sections can be
sufficient, in some cases. to damage or destroy these
conductors. Wiring harnesses and control cables are
A particularly important problem arises if
a conductor is heated enough to melt it, because then
wire might literally explode and cause very severe
damage.
Some of the factors that affect heating and melt-
of various metals are listed in Table 6.1.
Calculation of temperature rise: The temperature
rise in a current-carrying conductor is:
0 2 3 8 2 AT (6.3) • 1 d f