Chapter 14
WIRING AIRCRAFT OF RESPONSE
Introduction 14.1
Verifying that an aircraft will not be harmed by tude of the voltages and current induced by lightning
effects. about by per- to come is most likely indirect effects
forming bench tests in which voltages and currents are This chapter undertakes to provide such tech-
injected into the terminals and wiring of aircraft sys- niques. The resulting estimates may not be very pre-
tems, tests such α3 described in Chapter 18. Specifi- cise, but they can at least indicate the general magni-
cations for such tests are often deficient in that they tude and nature of the induced voltages and currents,
merely specify something like and that may be sufficient for preliminary designs or
tests.
Bench shall the equipment The discussions to follow will treat both the open tests stebject to the
lightning environment specified in circuit voltage ... and the short circuit current induced on
aircraft wiring. Α knowledge of open circuit voltage is
The referenced document then describes only the important because it represents the maximum volt-
lightning environment to which the aircraft as α whole age to which α circuit or electrical insulation might be
should be designed. Equipment inside the aircraft, of exposed. Short circuit current is important because
course, is not subjected to the full lightning threat, and it represents the maximum current that might flow
it would not be meaningful to subject each individual through an element designed to carry current, such
box or cable to the 200 000 amperes peak current that as α protective spark gap or diode. The two factors
might represent the external lightning threat. together define the source impedance of the surge, α
Some sort of program is needed to estimate real- quantity needed in order to conduct rational bench
istic levels at which tests should be conducted. Even testing of equipment.
if tests are not performed, some sort of program is The discussions will also provide an introduction
needed to estimate levels to which equipment should to the art of modeling the response of electrical circuits
be designed. If no estimates are made, either equip- to the voltages and currents induced by lightning.
ment must be designed and tested to arbitrarily chosen
Wire Impedances levels, or it will be designed or selected without any 14.2
special regard for lightning indirect effects.
Some have called the process of determining volt- Inductance and capacitance of conductors were
ages and currents on individual components α flow- treated in §9.7.3 and §9.8.1. For wires above α ground
process, implying that it is one of determining plane, Fig. 14.1, and using only air as insulation, sim- down
how much of the external lightning environment "flows plified expressions for calculation are:
down" onto individual components. Ideally. the per-
formance of flowdown calculations to determine the
most likely voltages and currents on the wiring of an = 0.2 ln(4η/δ) pH/μ (14.1) Λ
aircraft would be clearly identified as one of the neces- pF/μ (14.2) 55.56
sary engineering tasks and would be allocated suitable ν(4η/δ C
staff, time and funding.
where air- the on and currents voltages the principle, In
craft wiring may be calculated from the geometry of
the aircraft wiring and knowledge of the strength and
plane height above α ground = electric fields, magnetic and of the internal orentation η
as discussed in Chapters 10, 11 and 12. Alternatively, conductor diameter = δ
they may be determined experimentally as discussed
in Chapter 13. Since staff and funding are not always Inductance and capacitance may also be estimated
available to perform the necessary measurements and from Figs. 14.2 and 14.3.
calculations, it is useful to have simplified techniques Inductance and capacitance also define the surge
that at least let one determine the order of magni- impedance of α conductor.
373