pconductor
0 1 250,1ns 5 μ2.5 em
Negative Swca vresh α pe streamer streamer Trichel cusw enth Π
-mA 2
Fig. 1.7 Negative corona.
electrons positive Positive Corona Processes 1.4.2
positive ions drawn into
Positive corona occurs when the electric field at electrode +• +-• .channel
++ + the surface of the electrode is positive, either because +
+ + + the electrode is energized with positive voltage or be- .; - + cause it is grounded and in the electric field produced
by an electrode energized with negative voltage. It has
many of the same characteristics as negative corona,
but the electrons and positive ions are accelerated in positive irs sweep from gap
the opposite direction. The mechanism is illustrated
+ + + + on Fig. 1.8. The amplitude of the current pulses .+-
++ + + + + is generally much larger than occurs with negative 1+
corona, but the pulses do not occur with as high α rep- " " " -
etition rate. The initial electron is drawn towards the
positive electrode and the positive ions formed by colli-
sion are repelled away from the positive electrode. 'Ihe
field strength at the surface of the electrode diminishes Fig. 1.8 Motion of ions for positive corona.
and the discharge stops until the charged particles are
swept from the space around the electrode. The elec-
tric field beyond the cloud of positive ions is enhanced The maximum repetition rate is about 200 Hz for large
because it responds both to the positive charge on the electrodes and 2000 Hz for point electrodes. The some-
electrode and to the positive space charge. In this re- what longer rise and decay times might imply that the
spect it is unlike the negative case where the positive pulses produce less radio interference than negative
space charge acts to lower the intensity of the field pro- corona pulses, but the higher amplitude of the current
duced by the negative charge on the electrode. This pulses makes the absolute interference levels higher.
enhanced field helps α positive streamer to propagate As the voltage is increased the corona glow forms
farther than would α negative streamer, an ionizing layer (Hermstein'σ glow) and the discharge
The positive coronas have three distinct forms; current consists of small ripples at α frequency of up to
Hz onset pulses, Hermstein'σ glow and positive streamers. 2 ξ 106 superimposed on α quasi-dc current. As the
Onset pulses appear as streamers in α stem with some voltage is increased still further the streamers rapidly
branching, and α high repetition rate gives the corona extend even further, the velocity of propagation being
α brushlike appearance. From an 8-mm sphere cur- 20 to 2000 cm/ps.
and rent amplitudes have been measured at 0.25 Α. Mean Sketches of positive corona the current wave-
rise time is 30 ns and mean decay time is about 100 no. shapes are shown on Fig. 1.9.
5