Federal 5.1 Table -
to Lightning
Aircraft
General
Aviation
23.867 Airframe
23.954 System Fuel
23.1309 Systems Other
of the Airframe 5.2.1 Protection
lightning protection regulation for The basic
is the same for all vehicle categories, and frames
pears in the FAR's as:
LIGHTNING PROTECTION
1 tLghtnin 25.5$1 pretstalon.
airlplane ()The must be protected against
effloets from catastrophic lightning.
metallic components, compliance For (b)
with Imorgetph (a) of this section may be
shown by-
properly components the Bonding (1)
airframe; the or to
a so that components Designing the (9)
the airplane. strike will not. endanger
components, (a) conmpliance For nonmetallic
(a) of this section may be with paragraph
by- shown
to mini- (1) Designing the components
miss the sffect of a strike; or
Incorporating acceptables means of (9)
electrical current m) diverting tim remslting
airplane. dte endanger not to as
Identical regulations are found in the FAR's
General Aviation (Part 23) and Rotorcraft ing with
(Parts 27 and 29). These regulations state that
components bonding pliance can be shown either by
or by components so delglng to the airfame
will not endanger the airframe. In this a strike
the term "bondin" refers to electrical connec- text
sufficient to withstand light- tions among components,
ning currents.
At the time this basic regulation was formulated
widely believed that hasardous lightning eabects it was
or to compo- were limited to the external structure
nents directly exposed to lightning strikes and
effects could be achieved protection from these
to the ensuring that they wee adequately bonded
flight control surfaces, main airframe. Examples were
and other compo- air data probes, empennage tips

E
Pertaining Regulations Aviation
Protection
Regulations and Tv)a Vehicle
ft Rotorcra
Transport Normal Transport
29.610 27.610 25.581
29.954 27.954 25.954
27.1309H 27.1309D 25.1309
nents light- located at extremities of the aircraft where
ning strikes most frequently occur. Adequate bond-
damage to the hinges, fasteners and air- ing would prevent
to the air- other means of attaching these components ap-
frame.
Bonding resistance: Unfortumately, this emphasis on
some designers to conclude that bond- bonding has led
ing, by itself, will provide adequate lightning protec-
need be done. tion for an aircraft and that little else
protected aircraft has meant a To them, a lightning
aircraft. Verification of this "bonded" status "bonded"
of a specified by attainment been signified has, in turn,
"bonded" components. the among resistance electrical I
bonding resistance various has adapted The industry
US military the them among purpose, for this limits
[5.1], which requires that specification MIL-B-5087B
lightning currents be intercon- components subject to
"bonding" resistance not exceeding 2.5 nected with a
is achieved by allowing metal-to- milliobms. This
by a dc re- metal contact among parts and verified
sistance measurement.
Criteria like the 2.5 miUiohm bonding specifica-
to own, their all of an importance on taken have tion
purpose of design, which is to the neglect of the real
deal- prevent hazardous lightning effects. Whereas electri-
among metal parts of an aircraft is im- cal continuity
portant, there are many other features of a successful corn.
of equal or greater impor- protection design that are
that tance.
con-
Efects within the aircraft: The focus of 2&581 FAR
externally mounted components on the bonding and
much attention low designers to give has perhaps led
ei- to lightning effects occuning within the airframe,
from current flow among internal struc- ther directly
magnetic tural members or indirectly, from changing
and electric fields interacting with electrical systems. that
been the cause of several by These indirect effects have
catastrophic accidents. brought about by electrical
and by burnout arcing among fuel tank components
components. More de- of flight essential electronic
9o