arated into real and imaginary components. The real
part is α measure of resistance and the imaginary com-
ponent is α measure of the internal inductance or the
magnetic flux within the conductor. At dc the internal
impedance of the conductor is just its resistance.
impedance internal
α mthe
ι(β) conductor
6 air gap
return path impedance•
Α
/ Λ - Ω - _
external impedance
impedance. of Components 9.7 Fig.
The external impedance is α property of the space
between the conductor and the return path, that is,
the size and shape of the conductor, the separation
from the return path and of the material (insulation)
between the two. With high frequencies the capaci-
tance of the insulation must be included in the insula-
tion impedance and it may also be more appropriate to
treat the insulation losses as α shunt resistance. Fig.
9.7(α) shows the external impedance resolved into
series connection of resistance and inductance, while
Fig. 9.7(β) shows it resolved into α set of parallel ad-
mittances.
Another circuit concept is that of transfer imped-
ance. With α hollow conductor, Fig. 9.8, the electric
field on the inner and outer surface will, in general not
be the same. The transfer impedance of α conductor is
the quantity that relates the conductor current to the
electric field along the inner surface of the conductor;
as opposed to the external impedance which relates the
current to the electric field along the external surface.
ι0 E
Fig. 9.8 Transfer impedance.

Evaluating these various impedances can be done
just as α mathematical manipulation of equations, but
it seems best to present some of the physical phenom-
ena involved. This is done in the following three sec-
tions. Inductance and related magnetic field effects
are covered in §9.7 and capacitance and related elec-
tric field effects are covered in §9.8. Both sections deal
with subjects other than the impedance of conductors.
formulations in mathematical with deals 10 Chapter
time domain of surface and transfer impedances.
9.7 Magnetic Field Effects
Magnetic field effects are probably the major rea-
son why voltages are induced on aircraft wiring by
Vlightning currents flowing on the aircraft. Situations
usually to be ineffective are where shielding proves
those where magnetic field effects have been over-
looked. Capacitive effects are, of course, also of im-
§9.8. in discussed are those but portance,
9.7.1 Field External to α Conductor
Infinite conductor: In the space around and exter-
of nal to α conductor of infinite length, Fig. 9.9, the
magnetic field is:
H Α/μ. (9.49) =
-
I
The return path of the current is assumed to be
so far away that it does not contribute to the magnetic
α field.
positive I
Fig. 9.9 Magnetic field ofk an infinite contductor
252