following: the include slowly, repeated pulses
thermal the evaluate better pulses test 1. Multiple
of pulses Multiple test. under objects on duty
objects that fast sufficiently occur lightning actual
between pulses. off cool do not
partic- in analog systems system, of types Some 2.
rapidly of effect cumulative to the ular, respond
disturbances. applied
phys- to susceptible more are of device types 3. Some
cycle. Semi- a in points certain at damage ical
to susceptible most are in particular conductors
state to from one changing are they when damage
another.
mo- to susceptible more are device of types 4. Some
Digital a cycle. in points certain at upset mentary
upset most susceptible to are particular in devices
state. changing are they when
up- to susceptible more are system of types Some 5.
cir- when interface cycle in a certain points at set
inter- periodic at refreshed or sampled are cuits
vals.
generated be can pulses multiple the Sometimes
a that so networks charging impedance low by using
dis- and be charged can storage capacitor energy single
do, particu- to difficult be may This rapidly. charged
charging instantaneous since levels, power high larly at
be may of amperes or thousands of hundreds currents
laboratory. the feeding mains power the from drawn
energy many to use is technique alternative An
dis- and then slowly, them charge capacitors, storage
under test. into the circuit them one by one charge
number total regarding pulsing: Questions Random
resolved. being are still rate repetition and of pulses
tests stroke multiple for practice common most The
circuit, the into pulses 24 injecting requires presently
two to exceed not period a over spaced pulses the with
the that made been have suggestions Some seconds.
prob- any avoid to distributed irregularly be pulses
clock cycles. computer with synchronization of lems
a implies random but used, has been random term The
ques- the raises and mathematical distribution, certain
obtain to repeated be must tests the often how of tion
distribution. a truly random
that only is really concern the Most commonly
precisely or time, in spaced precisely be not pulses the
frequency. clock digital particular to any synchronized
only require and random term the to avoid is best It

of period over a certain be distributed pulses that the
time.
importance be of critical not may matter The
any spe- without may, in generators gaps spark since
scale the on irregularly, or switch jitter, cial attention,
timing switch the basic though even microseconds, of
milliseconds. of a scale on is fixed
the question with deal not presently do Standards
degree of randomness. the or spacing between pulses of
dis- be it should importance, of actual is matter the If
plan. test in the cussed
Generators Impedance of Source 18.3.5
circuit open certain specify standards Present
explic- not do but currents, circuit short and voltages
tran- impedance of source required the with deal itly
the an example, as 16.2 Table Taking generators. sient
as follows. are impedances generator implied
is representa- which 16.12), 1 (Fig. For Waveform 1.
the and apertures, voltages IR by coupling tive of
ohms. 0.3 - 0.1 range the in should be impedance
proportional has a shape 2, which Waveform For 2.
repre- and is 1 derivative of Waveform the to
into induced magnetically voltages of sentative
5 be should impedance the unshielded circuits,
ohms.
of somewhat typical is 3, which Waveform 3. For
air- into induced actually and currents voltages
on a wave- superimposed (perhaps wiring craft
25 should be impedance the or 2), 1 like form
ohms.
of typical which is somewhat Waveform 4, 4. For
shielded wiring, induced onto currents and voltages
ohms. 5 should be impedance the
represent to intended is 5, which Waveform For 5.
redistributing and diffusing of current effects the
imped- the structure, aircraft a resistive through
ohms. 0.5 of order on the be should ance
oscilla- for 16.3 Table in given specifications The 6.
impedance source a imply waveforms burst tory
25 the different from impedance an ohms, 100 of
16.2. Table in implied ohms
the ra- only represent so defined impedances The
and current circuit short to circuit voltage open of tio
impedance the that implying as taken be not should
of impedance the Most commonly, resistive. be must
473