zone definitions did not distinguish between surfaces data was available in the 1972-1975 time period on
which were trailing edges and those which were lead- cloud-to-cloud or intra-cloud flashes, although these
ing edges or frontal surfaces, even though the duration were generally believed to be loss intense than the
of lightning attachment to these types of surfaces is cloud-to-earth variety upon which the new standard
significantly different. It is well known, for example, was based.
that lightning currents frequently melt holes in trail- Recognizing that the physical damage to aircraft
ing edges where the flash may hang on for prolonged structures, including arcing among structural joints in
periods, whereas holes are infrequent in frontal or side fuel tanks, was more dependent upon peak current am-
surfaces of an aircraft, plitude and overall time duration than upon the ac-
tual waveform of stroke currents, and that generation
and Test methods indirect effects: Finally, the early of α unidirectional 200 kA first return stroke current
standards failed to define acceptable test methodb, and was not likely to become feasible, the new specifica-
did not address indirect effects on aircraft electrical tion allowed for application of either unidirectional or
and electronic systems. Lightning related accidents damped sinusoid currents as long as the peak ampli-
continued to occur, even to aircraft protected in ac- tude, action integral and overall time duration were
cordance with and MIL-Β-5087. adhered to. Subsequent studies undertaken by the AC 20-53
SAB Committee AE-4Λ (Lightning) 5.5.3 committee showed that physical damage is indeed re-
lated to these parameters, while not to the specific
waveform. and FAA the deficiencies, above the Recognizing
DOD in 1972 requested the Society of Automotive En-
gineers (SAE) committee on electromagnetic compati- Action integral: The Action Integral, is the time Al,
bility (SAE-AE-4) to form α subcommittee to develop integral of the current squared and represents the abil-
improved aircraft lightning protection design and test ity of the current to deposit energy in α resistive object.
standards. The new subcommittee included lightning The expression for action integral is given by Eq. 5.1.
phenomenologists and specialists in aircraft lightning
2 protection design and testing. The committee was des- Α σ (5.1) =φ AI ι2(τ)dt
ignated special task F and later given the permanent J
designation, AE-4Λ (lightning). This committee has where
functioned continuously since 1972 and has become the
of and standardization point for development US focal
- Α stroke current varying lightning time protection requirements. aircraft lightning ι(τ) =
time σ τ -- - ac- task first The components: current Δ and C Β, Α,
complished by the SAE lightning committee was to de- Action integral, multiplied by specimen resistance
velop α standard lightning environment for design and (assumed constant), gives the energy dissipated in the
test purposes, synthesized from the available natural specimen, as shown in Eq. 5.2.
lightning data. The result, which was first published
in 1975 as α committee report entitled (5.2) Lightning Test Ω AI ξ R =
and Waveforms and Techniques for Aerospace Vehicles
[5.8], included α standard severe lightning Hardware
flash current waveform comprised of four current com-
ponents, designated Α, and Δ and illustrated in Ω energy - joules or watt-seconds Β, C =
Fig. 5.2, together with α set of test methods for utiliz-
ing the standardized currents. One of the important specimen or structure resistance ohms R = -
sources of natural lightning data drawn upon by the
Electric SAE Committee in formulating this standard was the field waveforms: The new SAE lightning en-
compendium of world-wide cloud-to-earth lightning vironment also included several voltage waveforms in-
data published by Cianos and Pierce [5.9]. tended to represent the electric field surrounding an
Component Α represents the first return stroke aircraft immediately preceding lightning attachment.
of α cloud-to-earth flash and component Δ is α single These waveforms, designated voltage waveforms Α, Β,
subsequent stroke. Components Β and C represent in- C and Δ, are used in tests to evaluate possibilities of
termediate and continuing currents. The electrical pa- puncture of dielectric (non-conducting) materials such
rameters comprise α severe version (but not the most as radomes, windshields and canopies. Other tests
severe possible) of each of these important character- were designed to evaluate fuel vapor ignition due to
istics of cloud-to-earth lightning flashes. Very little corona and streamers occurring near fuel vent outlets.
96