relative to its surroundings and estab- high voltage
lish~s a high electric fiald at the surface of the vehicle,
a second arc will be eptab- few microseconds later, A
lished from the vehicle to ground, suddetuy reduci.g
field back to zero and completing the cir- the electric
cuit allowing current to flow.
•'•2. [ A~Q0r-
T arc arc second Sfirst
-
------
pulse technique. excited Shock, 13.15 Fig.
inter- These changes in electric field couple to the
what nal circuits, presumably in a manner similar to
Testing enists -i nature when the aircraft is struck.
a well shielded high probably should be done with
the spark voltage gerierator to minimize coupling from
be done at voltages gaps of the generator and should
and limits the elec- sufficiently high that corona forms
tric field at the surface of the vehicle. Voltages in
excess of volts are probably required. 106
coupling shown that electric field Some tests have
was the primary coupling method for high impedance
signal circuits, as contrasted to low impedan"'e circuits
magnetic field coupling predominated. Elec- for which
tric field effects are not covered by the standardized
lightning environment and there is as yet no clear con-
be treated or what test sensus as to ho'v they should
techniques are best.
13.4 Conduct of LTA Tests
This section will discuss some of the objectives of
for making satisfactory LTA pulse tests ar.d techniques
measurements. They are applicable whatever the cur-
at which the tests are made. The objectives rent level
CW are nlso applicable for tests nade using the Swept
technique discussed in §13.b.
13.4.1 Objectives
The main purpose of LTA tests, and of other types
sections, in the foregoing test described of full vehicle
electrical transients the magnitudes of is to determnie
wiring, aircraft interconnecting in appearing aciually
data is necessary to verify that actual transients This
estab- (TCL) control the not exceed do level sient tran
its collec. and circuits and specific lished for systems
in as described process, certification of the tion is part
5, Chapter

voltages and short circuit current: The Open circuit
most important typeof data to be collected is that on
currents. There and short circuit open circuit voltages
are two reasons for this:
1. They represent the maximum possible volteges
and currents.
are Equipment transient design levels (ETDLs)
shomt and circuit voltage of open in terms defined
at appearing currents be- the interfaces circuit Itween
looking into and equipment viewed wiring
the wiring.
appearing the voltage is voltage open circuit The
The disconnected. equipment with the at the interface
short short circuit current is the current flowing in a
between two wires, or between a wire and the airframe
ground, also at the equipment interface.
The open circuit voltage and short circuit current
suffice to define a Thevenin equivalent of the circuit.
in a test gen- They also define the capabilites needed
of the equipment erator used to evaluate the ability
to withstand equipment transient design levels. This
is the second part of the verification pro- latter process
for conducting in Chapter 5. Methods cess described
equipment tests are described in Chapter 18.
to be Other measurements: Other measurements
made during LTA tests include bulk cable currents,
magnetic fields within currents on shields of cables,
structures and structural IR voltages.
measure tran- practical to it is never Since Test plans:
all wires of an aircraft, or even all wires of a sients in
made are usually critical system, measurements flight
The choice of which wires only on representative wires.
upon which to make measurements is made on the
wire routing, degree of shielding and circuit basis of
of simi- function, so as to be typical of other wires
lar description. The process of selection of circuits
and wires to be measured is a very important part of
process. and together with selection of the certification
test conditions, that is, current entry and exit points,
constitutes the teqt plan.
be reviewed plans should Proposed certification
prior to the for concurrence authorities with certifying
of tests. start
pur- second IETDLs: A and TCLs of EstabUshonwt
which from data to obtain is tests vehicle full of pose
of course, established. This, be can and ETDLs TCLs
an at available is airframe a suitable if possible only is
364