and Calculation of Voltage 14.5.2 Cument
α ruling is that there are made assumptionA If the
fields magnetic the that and zone particular α for field
rates of (constant waveshapes changing have linearly
simpliAed some derive to possible it is then change),
between the magnetic field and the re- relationships
sulting induced voltages and currents. The princples
were reviewed in §14.2. As applied to the Space Shut-
tle, additional assumptions were:
and δ, diameter I, length of was conductor The 1.
plane. spaced α height η above α ground
produce max- 2. The magnetic field was oriented to
voltages in the conductor. imum
3. One end of the conductor was grounded.
shown in 4. The magnetic fields were of the shape
and tables that follow Fig. 14.18. The figures
had be recalculated if the fields would have to
waveshapes. different
in §14.2. made assumptions the These are also
200 kA
(α)
microsec 2 100 0
(β)
0 2 microsec 100
(χ)
600 300 0
microsec
Fig. 14.18 Waveforms used for Orbiter analysis.
(α) Lightning current
field, Α-component (β) Aperture-coupled
(χ) Diffusion-coupled field, Β-component
386

TT'fhn
voltegq: circuit Open was circuit voltage The open
cou- aperture by the only developed be to assumed
to rise assumed were all of which fields, magnetic pled
Then: microseconds. in two peak their to lineatly
(14.23) V., = 1KjhH
where
if I and η are in meters = 0.63 KI
I = 0.63 ξ if and η are in centimeters 10-4 K,
inches in are η and if I ξ 0.41 = 10-3 K 1
per meter. In all cases H is expressed in amperes
be would voltages open circuit of the waveshape The
hence proportional to the derivative of the H field, and
is likely to be oscillatory.
Short circuit current: Short circuit current was as-
sumed to be governed by the diffusion-coupled mag-
end netic field and, for conductors grounded at each
was
(14.24) I~χ K2 = hH
ac- 14.20, or 14.19 Fig. given by either was where K 2
measurement of the con- cording to the units used for
by the dimensions current was governed ductor. Since
by its inductance, of the conductor, or more exactly
η/δ, K was not constant, but depended on the ratio α
magnetic field. oi the and fall times as the rise as well
influence short circuit Conductor length does not
current circuit of the short waveshape current. The
incident magnetic the of that as same the be tends to
field.
α ground The height, η, of the cable bundle above
the ground plane is plane is difficult to specify because
bun- purely α plane surface and because cable seldom
dles are frequently strapped directly to α supporting
was assumed: of analysis it For purposes structure.
sub- 1. That height η was measured to the nearest
stantial metallic structural member.
2. That if the cable bundle was laid directly on that
one-half the cable diameter. member, η equaled
was elevated above the 3. That if the cable bundle
η structural metallic clear the equaled member,
cable the one-half plun member the above height
diameter. If the cable height differed along its
was used. average height length, an
Based on Eqs. 14.23 and 14,24, Fig. 14.18, and
Table 14.1, the voltages and currents on typical wiring
Orbiter were calculated. The re- in the Space Shuttle
on Table 14.2 [14.1]. sults are shown