is leader the along drop voltage The voltage: Leader
resistance the making 2 kV/cm, about small, rather thus is leader The cm. per ohms 20 order of the on
of an extension as acts it that conductive suffciently
volt-- applied the of most that is result the rod and the
age is impressed across the unbridged portion of the
the across gradient the progresses, leader the As gap.
leader the and gap increases the of portion unbridged
current. more carries and faster progresses
con- leader the of ahead corona the When jump: Final
to begins channel conductive α more the plane tacts
this stage At final jump. the is called This entire gap.
chan- conducting highly by α is bridged gap entire the
it becomes current more carries the channel As nel.
to carry it allows which conductive, more and hotter
the still. Eventually hotter become current and more
and circuit external the by limited becomes current
arc collapses. the across voltage the
α of characteristics configurations: The Electrode
of electrode, type the by influenced are breakdown on shown being configurations electrode common some
consists geometry studied easily most The 1.14. Fig.
α grounded above rod placed or sphere an energized of
An- configuration. rod plane or plane α sphere plane,
en- one rods, of two consists geometry common other
pro- breakdown The grounded. other the and ergized
than complicated is more gap α rod-rod such cess in
si- develops breakdown the since gap rod-plane in α
is energized which of one from each rod, multaneously
electrodes Sphere-sphere negative. other and positive
as used be can and fields of uniform studies in used are
When of voltage. measurement for electrodes standard
parallel
electrodes
visible) (not
off to cut
voltage
kV 3000
/
of Study 1.15 Fig.

hphere sprer
σ0phere iserto
(
`
(β)
(α)
rod rod
(δ) (C)
configurations. Electrode 1.14 Fig.
to plane Sphere (α)
Sphere to sphere (β) plane to Rod (χ)
rod to Rod (δ)
at points the to determine made are tests high voltage
the geom- an aircraft, to attach might lightning which
configuration. plane rod to of α that approximates etry
breakdown of Early studies of observation: Methods
exposed of gaps behavior the on focussed phenomena
techniques of the One impulse voltages. to lightning
The figure Fig. 1.15. on shown is studies the used for
MV 3 polarity α positive in which setup test α shows
to α applied was volts) impulse 106 3 ξ or (megavolts
the field of out gap rod-rod Α parallel gap. rod-rod
ρ-------------- I
corona
I electrode
-- Λ Λ
view of field
7/// / // / /
breakdown. rod-rod
10