were concepts protection aircraft, to presented threat
prepared were specifications and protection reviewed
α aircraft and fighter F-14Α an aircraft, testbed for two
any re- fund did not program The helicopter. YUH-61
devel- materials collected it activities. Instead, search
work- various sponsored programs, other under oped
them into assembled and material the review to shops
which of each 8.6], - [8.2 reports of series part five α
volume, this of readers the by be studied should
ef- indirect with mostly dealt program AEH The
excluded been having effects direct lightning, of fects
to be understood were effects Direct charter. its from
cautioned were the reports of readers and important
ef- direct with of dealing necessity of the aware to be
[8.7], made was effects of direct review Α limited fects.
data engineering develop to made was attempt no but
effects. direct to relating
has been that group Α activities: Committee SAE
prac- test and design lightning with reviewing charged
doc- advisory and standards developing and with tices
(SAE) Engineers Automotive of Society is the uments
have committee this of Members AE4Λ. Committee
air- US the areas of all from representatives included
certifying the military, manufacturers, industry; craft
included also It has and test laboratories. agencies
the of counteiparts European the from representatives
coordinating of aim the with this industry; aircraft US
agreement promoting and activities and European US
between various certifying agencies.
doc- draft been to has charter SAE of the Part
FAA Advisory as issued ultimately are that uments
document such One standards. military and Circulars
di- with connection in cited been previously has [8.91
[8.101. and [8.9] include documents Other effects. re,,,
been has activities the SAE from the material of Much
[8.11]. Standard Military α into incorporated
and have NASA and FAA research: Both NASA FAA
As effects. indirect toward funded research oriented
[8.12] development initial the funded NASA examples,
tech- test (LTA) Analysis Transient Lightning the of
induced on currents and voltages to determine nique
sponsored has FAA The lightning. by wiring aircraft
tech- test several using results compare to [8.13] tests
LTA technique. including the niques,
Program Control α in Steps 8.3
requires generally effects indirect of the Control
elec- and electrical aircraft the of portions subjecting
laboratory. the in tests controlled tronic systems to
re- analysis or by by done only be cannot control The
of than control more any experience, liance on field
by only be controlled can problems other EMI/EMC
the aircraft inter- aircraft systems and analysis; the

tasks the of One that. complex for too are actions
levels appropriate determining is done be must that
aircraft equipment, the of tests conduct to which at
levels design transient equipment called these being
ex- is aircraft an in equipment Electronic (ETDLs).
lightning the of energy the of α portion to only posed
lightning the how Analyzing effects. full not its flash,
called be can manifested) is it how (and energy divides
universally not is term the though process, α flowdown
recognized.
indirect of control and problem of analysis The
can analysis fortunately, but, complex one, α is effects
illus- are stages stages. These several into divided be
determine is to task overall The 8.1. Fig. in trated
and to voltages leads current, lightning the how IL,
individual tasks The wiring. internal on the currents
of lightning effects indirect the control to in α program
follows: as divided be can
the of waveform amplitude and the 1. Determine
to the fields external current and electromagnetic
aircraft.
in- the and voltages IR structural the Determine 2.
fields. electromagnetic ternal
air- the of wiring the response of the Determine 3.
deter- is, that fields; and voltages those to craft
the on induced currents and voltages the mine
wiring.
4. Determine the response of electrical equipment to
identify circuits that is, and currents; the voltages
damage. or to either upset susceptible
measures. protective and incorporate Design 5.
immunity. prove tests to laboratory Conduct 6
Broadly speak- chapters: subsequent of Organization
item 2 10, in Chapter is discussed item 1 above ing,
13 Chapters 4 in 3 and items 12, and 11 Chapters in
in 6 and item 16 and 15 Chapters 5 in item 14, and
process, reduced the in steps various The 18. Chapter
8.2. Fig. in shown are chart, α flow of form the to
AEHP the to figure refer the on numbers section The
[8.14]. guide design
mis- of α number are There material: Background
mathemat- and electrical regarding points cellaneous
effects indirect of in analysis involved concepts ical
0, Chapter in consolidated and reviewed are these and
chap- in later piecemeal introduced being rather than
par- 9, Chapter in discussed the points of Some ters.
for included are operations, mathematical ticularly the
in analyt- they are encountered reference since general
electromagnetic phenomena. with works dealing ical
that the chapters in explicitly used them are of Not all
4 follow.
224