plete information o, charactiktics, curves similar V-I
to Fig. are supplied. 17.15
MOV devices used for ac power Large, high energy
clamping volt- rated in terms of the systems are often
amperes, and such devices age when carrying 10 000
are niov becoming available for aircrift use.
MOVs in series: MOV devices of the same cross sec-
prob- may be connected in series with no tional area
thickness or volt- not have the sane lems. They need
rating. age
MOVs in parallel: When high energy surges must be
suppressed, MOVs are sometimes connected in paral-
lel, but care must be taken to match the char- V-I
acteristics, as shown in Fig. 17.21. If not, one device
may carry most of the surge current, defeating the pur-
may in parallel. Exact matching pose of using devices
not be necessary since by the time r.arrent becomes
high enough to require parallel devices, the bulk resis-
tance may dominate the performance and force current
sharing. Use of one larger diameter disk, however, is
preferable to using several small disks in parallel.
Devioe #2
Amperes
of MOVs. operation Parallel 17.21 Fig.
Wear-out: Specifications for MOV devices some-
times specify a maximum allowable number of surges
of specific amplitude. This is sometimes taken as in-
their "worn out", loose that MOVs become dicating
non-linear properties and are no longer capable of pro-
tecting against surges. not The factor that This is so.
may change after many surges is the leakage current
at operating voltage. It may increase, but the MOV
still retains its non-linear characteristic and its ability
to protect against surges.
Turn-on voltage: Sometimes the characteris- V-I
made and discussions linear plots on tics are presented
about the "knee" of the curve or the voltage at which
are misleading MOV "turns on." Such discussions the
since the so- called "knee" is an artifact of the scale
used for plotting current. The current is an exponen-
tial function of voltnge and plotting the same function

to a different current scale would ir licate a different
"knee." Also, discussions of "turn-on" imply a switch-
which the mechanism of conduction by ing mechanism
a There is no more from one state to another. changes
for an MOV device than there "switching" mechanism
is for a semiconductor diode.
Failure mode: In response to a massive surge current
fail open circuit. More MOV disks may shatter and
excessive con- fail by they are caused to commonly,
the disk and current that fuses voltage and tinuous
causes it to fail shorted. Sometimes the heat is suffi-
cient to melt the solder holding the leads to the MOV
disk and the device fails open circuit. Whether fail-
open or fail-short is the preferred mode depends on
the designer's preferences and requirements.
varistors: Advantages of metal oxide-based
1. Bilateral devices.
2. Small size.
3. Easily mounted. One common configuration is
very similar in appearance to a disk ceramic ca-
pacitor.
drops Self-extinguishing. When applied voltage 4.
below the voltage for which the device is rated,
they conduct very little current.
5. Inherently fast response time.
and capability. The current power-handling 6. High
energy handling capability is second only to cer-
tain types of spark gap. MOVs gives a higher
ratio of energy absorbed to energy reflected than
do conventional spark gaps. Moreover, the energy
is absorbed throughout the buik of the material
narrow P-N junction. not concentrated in a and is
Disadvantages:
1. High capacitance.
2. Not too suitable for operating voltages below
about 10 volts. Minimum clamping voltages are
on the order of 30 volts.
17.4.3 Zener-Tyrpe Diodes
This category includes all single-junction semi.
conductor devices such as rectifiers, in addition to the
Zener type diodes. While other semiconductor devices,
448