time domain,
3. Inject low level (much less than full threat level)
currents into the aircraft, measure the response
in the time domain and extrapolate the results to
full threat level.
These three techniques are discussed further in
Chapter 13. The technique of injecting low level pulse
currents into the aircraft is called the Tran- Lightning
(LTA) technique and is the one that has sient Analysis
of the response of most measurements for used been
threat level tests areW circuits. Full aircraft electrical
seldom made on aircraft; equipment for such tests is
very expensive and at the limit of the state of the art
and in any case can not be performed until the aircraft
has been designed and built.
Sometimes of course, a designer does not have ac-
cess to detailed analytical and experimental studies,
or does not have the time or the funds to procure such
studies. In recognition of this common problem Chap-
ter 14 provides some very simplified tools with which
to estimate the voltages and currents that might be
induced on aircraft wiring. If the need is for guidance
as to levels appropriate for conducting bench tests the
tools may be sufficient for the job.
Voltages Induced of Examples 8.7
Aircraft on Measured
tests wade on air- several aets of There have been
craft in which simulated lightning currents were in-
and jected into the aircraft and the resultant voltages
measw~ed. Space con- currents on the aircraft wiring
straints preclude giving in ýhis chapter a comprehen-
re- summary of the test results, end the user is sive
ferred to the reports on the individual tests. A few ex-
will be given in the follow- amples of the measurements
the general to illustrate primar.ly in order ing sections,
nature of voltages and currents induced by lightning,
Where appropriate, reference will be made to the sub-
sequent chapters where the phenomena awe discussed
in further detail,
F-89J from Aircraft Wing 8.7.1
The first set of tetzs to be discussed [8.11 wab one
in which high lightilng-like currents of amplitude up
to 40 000 were injected into one A w.ng of an F-89J
aircraft. During the test, represented in Fig. 8.11, 'he
.
wing was fastened onto a screened instrument enclo-
sure, which may be viewed as &epresenting the fuselage
of the aircraft. The current was iwjected into the wing
or into the external wing tip tank, allowed to flow along
the wing to the outer wall of the screened instrument
231

enclosure, and then to ground. An example of cne of
is shown in injected into the wing the types of current
Fig. 8.11(b).
STRUMEN
WING TIP TANK INCLOSUILN-
(a)
§aERATOR
(b)
Fig. High current injection tests 8.11 on a wing
from a fightertsircraftn
from a) ghter aircraft.
(a) Test arrangement
(b) Waveshape of injected curreut
In order to obtain maximum current, the surge
al- essentially that mode a in operated was generator
os- a damped of cycle one only of production the lowed
cillatory current, the technique having having involved
in as previously discussed resistor a series non-linear
§6.8.1. The surge current was, of course, unlike a typ-
ical lightning current, which would rise to crest rather
fast and decay at a much slower rate. The shape of
the current wave must be considered when observing
be discussed. the waveshape of some voltages that will
In particular, note that at about 20 ps there appears
This discontin~u- major discontinuity in waveshape. a
induced in the is reflected ity in current waveshape
voltages.
Within the wing there were a number of electri-
cal circuits, such as those to navigation lights, fuel
gauges, pumps, rclays, and switches indicating posi-
tion of flaps. Some of these ran in the leading edge of
electromag- many from shielded well were. and wing the
netic effects, while others ran along the trailing edge
between the main body of the wing and the wing flaps.
These latter were the most exposed to the electromag-
netic fields. All of the circuits were relatively simple
and relatively independent of each other. They were
not, as a rule, bundled together in one large cable bun-
die, a practice that provides maximum coupling from
one circuit to another and makes analysis difficult.
The question of how location of wiring affLTŽts the
lightniig induced voltages is discussed in Chapter 16.