.
Chapter 15
SHIELDING
Introduction 15.1
If electronic equipment is to be operated in α re- are discussed in §15.3. The ultimate aim of the dis-
gion where there are changing electromagnetic fields, cussion is to develop equivalent circuits relating the
and if experience or analysis indicates that the currents voltage on conductors to the magnitude of the inter-
and voltages induced by those fields may be harm-, fering current. Section 15.7 provides tabular data on
ful, the most straightforward approach toward achiev- the transfer impedance of various types of cable.
ing transient compatibility is through shielding, both In steady state or freauency domain analyses of
of intercown.ecting wiring and of electronic equipment. radio frequency interferentce (RFI), shields are gener-
Frequently the electronic epuipment will be inherently ally rated in terms of their shielding (SE) effectiveness
shielded by enclosures,'thouigh there are practices that α quantity generally relating the voltages or current3
can defeat the inherent shielding of metal enclosures on conductors with and without α shield, the definition
and there are non-metallic enclosures that offer lit- of shielding effectiveness being
on comment will follow that shielding. Discussions tle 1
shielding provided by enclosures, but they will treat 2,0 voltage log (or current) without shield SE
mostly with shields on cofnductors. voltage (or current) with shield
Shielding 15.2 Effectiveness When discussing transient or analy- time domain
be the most may not of SE above definition ses, the
The degree to which α cable shield reduces the valuable concept because shields not only reduce the
voltage induced on α conductor depends on the con- amplitude of interfering voltages and currents, but
struction of the shield, solid tubular, braided, tape change their waveshape as well. The SE does not ac-
wound, diameter, thickness, material resistivity etc. count for the changes of amplitude. It is better to keep
All of these are factors that affect the resistance of the all analyses in the time domain and to discuss shield-
shield. Braided shields for cables are almost universely ing in terms of the approach that transfer impedances,
made from copper, but solid shields, such as conduits will be taken in the bulk of the material to follow.
and enclosures are most commonly made from alu-
Cable Grounding Effects minum. Aluminum has the virtue of light weight, but 15.3
copper has the virtue of solderability and resistance to
cold flow at pressure points. Magnetic materials, such In aircraft, shielded conductors are most com-
as iron and steel, can provide more shielding effective- monly used to control low-level and low-frequency in-
ness than either copper or aluminum, but are seldom terference signals. How to ground shields is often Π.
either needed or used in aircraft. controversial matter, with one school recommending
The above factors also affect the transfer imped- that shields be grounded at only one end and another
ance and how the noise current flowing on the shield school recommending they be grounded at both ends.
of the cable if relhted to the noise signals coupled onto
the signal conductors. The concept of transfer imped- Single point grounding: The aim of the single point
ance was previously discussed in §9.0.4 and §9.9, the ground concept is to minimize the flow of noise current
quantity of most interest for this discunsion being the on shields and so minimize the voltage rise along the
transfer impedance with external return, discussed in shields. The assumptions, often unstated, are that the
§9.9.1. Transfer impedance of cable shields will also shields are short and that their function is to inter-
be discussed in §15.6. The noise voltages are also af- cept low frequency electric field displacement currents
fected by the way that the shield and conductors are and keep those currents from flowing on high imped-
connected to ground and loads. The effects of these ance circuits. "Short" implies that the shield must be
connections, discussed in §15.3, are often of more im- α small fraction of the wavelength of the interfering
portance than the construction of the shield, signal, perhaps Λ/20. With 30 kHz, as an example,
In this chapter, transfer impedances are discussed the wavelength is 10 km and any shield on an aircraft
"short". would be connection effects important while the more in §15.6
397