triggered lightning For triggering: for Requirements
elec- static the that is requirement first the form, to
must be is immersed which the aircraft tric field in
locally so that the properly oriented and large enough
the exceed aircraft the somewhere on fields enhanced
enhancements largest The value. breakdown air local
partic- edges, or points sharp at be will field of the
the in oriented are edges and if those points ularly
has flight in aircraft An field. ambient the of direction
pro- such as edges, and sharp sharp points such many
distances For tips. empennage and wings tips, peller
are fields enhanced locally these or so meter α of half
factor α by field ambient the than be higher to likely
likely more is considerably it Hence, more. or of ten
of α lightning and formation that initial air breakdown
than aircraft an of presence the in occur will channel
in its absence.
is lightning triggered for requirement second The
for high and high, sufficiently be field electric the that
and prop- can form that α streamer distance, sufficient
during sufficient; not is corona of Formation agate. all objects grounded on forms corona thunderstorms
because streamers not develop into but does the time,
not is grows corona the which into field electric the
1, in Chapter research discussed The high. sufficiently
subjected electrodes development from streamer to on
that the streamers impulses, shows applied externally
full fledged develop into and to propagate will continue
electric field in as the average leaders as long lightning
At 500 kV/μ, at sea level. the gap exceeds about
to support field sufficient the ambient flight altitudes,
less due is somewhat streamer propagation continued
air densities. to lower
average volt- that an also shows That research
gap to an electrode kV/μ applied gradient of 500 age
voltage is main- if the lead to breakdown will always
value at sea is the 500 kV/μ long enough. tained
break- to cause be expected kV/μ could level; 250
One conclusion (20 000 ft) altitude. at 6000 μ down
hundred field of several is that an electric from this
on the edge that are just represents conditions kV/μ
is almost is that breakdown Another of breakdown.
requi- achieves the the field to occur whenever certain
be α local there will since in time site minimum level
As propagate. be able to that will then breakdown
should show flashes triggered lightning all consequence
properties. similar
by an ambient charge induced to the In addition
charge collect α net can also field, an aircraft electric
of ionized parti- as ejection means, such by various
interception of or by exhaust of an engine in the cles
α charge may crystals. Such drops or ice charged rain
light- of triggered the occurrence affect significantly
and can the local fields contributes to because it ning

and breakdown initial the enhance suppress or either
leaders. developing
Environment Lightning 3.7.1 Triggered
is the lightning triggered aircraft in factor key The
These thunderstorms. by produced field electric static
researchers using several by been measured have fields
and sondes parachuted balloons, and rockets, aircraft,
- 500 250 of fields the requisite that 3.5, Table show,
reported been have also values Higher exist. can kV/μ
report - 3.54] [3.49 observations recent More [3.48].
The 3.5. Table with consistent also are which values
excellent an contains also 3.5 Table in cited review
fields. electric to related work on bibliography
3.5 Table
Measured Fields Electric Thunderstorm
Experiments Airborne in α
_
Measurement Values High Invelstiaorpcal
2ξ ξ at. Rockets 105 6-8 104 Winn ot
(1974)
Balloons 105 at winn ξ (1981) 1.4 ei.
lo0 ξ 105 Ξ Rust, Aircraft 3.0 1.5 Kasemir
Perkins 2.8 Ξ log 1 Ξ 10 Kasemir and Aircrait
(1978)
ξ Ξ at al. Aircraft 2.5 tmyanitov 105 10σ 1 (1972)
Parachuted 2ξ 1Σ evans(tlg9)
Sonde
Aircraft Ξ ξ α0 105 8 2-4 (1976) Fitzgerald
[3.55] cell model simplified thunderstorm The
the condi- be used to illustrate 3.19 will shown in Fig.
The may be found. such such fields under which tions
the from extracted is based on information illustration
Re- Center Storm Hazards Langley Research NASA
research air- using an F-106Β [3.56] search Program
Coulomb charge centered cell has α +40 craft. The
ground, α -40 Coulomb (32 800 ft) above at 10 km
Cou- and α +10 km (16 400 ft), at 5 charge centered
(6000 ft). at 2 km charge centered lomb
can be simplified fields of the electric Calculation
line in α vertical charges located point α by assuming
the ground. Contours of con- charges in with image
of charges an assemblage front such electric field stant
Because the calcula- 3.20 - 3.22. in Figs. are shown
show an the figures on point charges. tions are based
are dis- actual charges field. The bound on the upper
region may to the charged field external tributed. The
but point charges, by assuming correctly be calculated
actual field region, the the charged for points inside
figures. the ont than indicated would be smaller
57