.
which the test article is constructed is translucent,
Translucence has become α greater problem in recent
years as more and more aircraft parts and structural el-
ements are manufactured of plastics or composite me,
terials.
or (35mm cameras small Several cameras: and Film
Polaroid) are located within the tank to view as much
of the tank interior as possible for each test. The cam-
eras are loaded with black and white or color film hay-
ing an equivalent sensitivity rating of ASA 3000 and
φ/4.7. This can be accomplished using faster films and
higher φ/stops or vice versa.
and black over advantages some has film Color
white film. Different light sources might produce dif-
ferent colors on the film. The light from α spark source
might record as blue or white, while the light transmit-
ted through translucent interior tank walls may show
dull red or yellow. This could help test personnel de-
termine the nature of the light source. An example of
"α photograph showing light from an ignition source in
"α fuel tank is shown in Fig. 7.50.
Fig. 7.50 Photograph obtained during full scale
fuel tank test.
Existence of light on the photograph
indicates that an ignition source may be
present.
Test procedure: In order to minimize the number of
strikes applied to the fuel tank under test and also be
able to view all the potential arc and spark sources
which may exist, it will be necessary to use as many
cameras as practical for each test. The procedures are
as follows:
1. Position each camera to view an area of the tank
considered to contain α potential arc or spark
source. The cameras should be held in potition
219

through the use of an electrically non-conductive
material, such as styrofoam, which can be placed
between the cameras and the tank structure. This
material will also electrically isolate the cameras
of arcing from the tank, minimizing the possibility
between the cameras and the tank. β
2. Illuminate the tank interior end take α photo-
graph with each of the cameras. This procedure
will provide background photographs which show
the tank areas as viewed by each of the cameras.
If arcs or sparks are recorded during the tests,
these background photographs will be helpful in
locations. their determining
3. Set each camera lens at the appropriate aperture
to satisfy the lens aperture/film speed require-
ments stated in the test documents.
4. Seal each area in which α camera is located so that
it is light.-tight.
5. Open and lock the shutter of each of the cameras
to keep the lenses open.
6. Discharge the high current generator into the
tank.
7. Close the camera shutters.
8. Recock the camera shutters and repeat steps 1-7
for the required number of tests.
Several tests may be performed before removing
the film from the cameras. Indications of light on the
photographs should be investigated since they could
represent possible ignition sources. If it is determined
that α light source is the result of an arc or spark,
corrective measures can be taken, if possible, and the
test repeated to determine if the corrective action has
eliminated the light source.
Sensitivity of photographic detection: Questions
have been raised about the reliability of the pho-
tographic method of testing and the 200 microjoule
spark level criterion for fuel vapor tests.
The photographic method of arc and spark detec-
tion, developed in the late 1950'σ or early 1960'σ, grew
out of α need to avoid the dangers of explosive test-
ing. Initially the sparks were observed manually, but
volunteers were not always available to sit in the test
chamber with the test piece. Polaroid photography
was employed to replace the observer. At that time,
Polaroid camera lenses had α maximum aperture of
φ/4.7 and the film had α light sensitivity rating of ASA
3000. No data had been gathered to correlate spark
energy with recorded light intensity, but the lens φ/4.7