Point Definitions Attachment Lightning 3.2
The lightning flash initially attaches to, or enters,
the aircraft at one spot and exits from another.
ally these are extremities of the aircraft such as
nose or α wing tip. For convenience, these are called
initial entry and initial exit points.
point into one is flowing any one time, current At
may be either The "entry" point another. and out of
electrons where is, α spot that or α cathode; an anode
The visual the aircraft. or exiting either entering are
to resolve allow one not strike does the after evidence
made. Instead, is no attempt and usually the issue
loca- or upper spots at attachment convention, forward
those entry spots and usually been called tions have
aft or lower locations on the aircraft have been termed
exit points,
Since the aircraft flies more than it'σ own length
of most flashes, the entry point within the lifetime
spots aft of reattaches to other change as the flash
same portion may do the point. The exit initial entry
portion of spot is at α forward if the initial exit
may be many Thus, for any one flash, there aircraft.
"entry" or "exit" spots and the following definitions
are used:
lightning attachment point: Any spot where
lightning flash attaches to the. aircraft,
flash entry point: The spot where the lightning initial
extrem- channel first "enters" the aircraft (usually an
ity).
final entry point: The spot where the lightning flash
channel last "enters" the aircraft (usually α trailing
edge).
initial exit point: The spot where the lightning flash
an aircraft (usually the from "exits" first channel
tremity).
final exit point: The spot where the lightning flash
last "exits" from the aircraft (usually α trailing edge).
swept "flash" (or "strike") points: Spots where
flash channel reattaches between the initial and
_points, usually associated with the entry part of
flash channel.
Circumstances Under Which Aircraft 3.3
Struck
The following paragraphs summarize the impor-
tant findings from the transport aircraft data gather-
ing projects noted previously and describe the flight
and weather conditions under which lightning strikes
are most common. Knowledge of these conditions may

inci- future lightning strike and minimize help pilots
dents, but such incidents can never be entirely avoided,
unless by operating entirely in clear, "blue sky" con-
Usu- ditions α long way from clouds.
the
Altitude and Flight Path 3.3.1
re- at which the the altitudes shows Fig. 3.1
are be- show aircraft discussed above projects porting
typical cumulonimbus with α compared as ing struck,
data turboprop and turbojet The cloud. (thunder)
For agreement. are in close summaries the four from
piston aircraft earlier from the the data comparison, by
alti- Cruise [3.2] are also presented. of Newman survey
aircraft are - 40 000 ft) for jet of 10 -15 000 μ (30 at tudes
considerably higher (15 kin) than that of earlier pis-
ton aircraft, which flew at about 3 - 6000 μ - 20 (10
ft); yet Fig. 3.1 shows the altitude distribution of 000
This lightning strike incidents to be nearly the same. will
flashes there are more lightning fact indicates (1) that the
this 6 km than above below about to be intercepted
struck at aircraft are being and (2) that jet the altitude,
is, during climb, de- than cruise altitudes: that lower
scent, or hold operations. Flight regime data obtained
[3.8] confirm from the jet projects shown in Fig. 3.2
this.
the If the strike altitudes shown in Fig. 3.1 are com-
pared with the electrical charge distribution in the
it is evi- shown in this figure, typical thundercloud
km re- dent that strikes which occur above about 3
suit from intracloud flashes between positive and neg-
ative charge centers in the cloud (or between adjacent
clouds), whereas strikes below about 3 km probably
result from cloud-to-ground flashes. Strike incidents
occurring above 6 km occur less frequently because air-
craft at these altitudes can more easily divert around thnecodtananirafatlwrliues
ex-
Synoptic Meteorological Conditions 3.3.2
Data discussed thus might far imply that an air-
craft must be within or beneath α cloud to receive α
strike and, since electrical charge separation is accom-
the panied by precipitation, that most strikes would occur
when the aircraft is within α cloud, or in or near re- final
the gions of precipitation. Strike incident reports show
that these conditions often do exist, but other light-
ning strikes occur to aircraft in α cloud when there is no
are evidence of precipitation nearby, and even to aircraft
flying in clear air at α supposedly safe distance from
α thundercloud. FAA and airline advisory procedures
instruct pilots to circumvent thunderclouds or regions
of precipitation evident either visibly or on radar, but
strikes to aircraft flying 25 miles from the nearest radar
returns or precipitation have been reported. Occasion-
ally α report of α "bolt from the blue," with no clouds
42