other The reflected energy 1. cran possibly appear on by gaps using carbon electrodes. Outline sketches of
unprotected circuits. spark gaps are shown in Fig. 17.9.
2. Multiple reflections may cause the transient to Electron avalanche: Conduction through a spark gap
last loUger than it would otherwise. occurs beca,4se of ani electron avalanche process, as dis-
gas den- Dielectric composition. cussed in Chapter 1.
3. The spectral density of the energy 'in the surge sity and electrode geometry all affect sparkover volt-
may be changed, either high or low frequencies age and the speed with which the avalanche develops.
being enhanced. Interference problems en other Sparkover voltage depends on the waveshape of volt-
circuits may well be increased even though the age; a surge voltage with a fast rate of change will
risk of damage to the protected circuit is reduced. cause sparkover at a higher voltage than would a more
(low gas density A low pressure gap slowly rising wave.
voltage than a lower at will sparkover exactly) the more Most commonly devicis: protective for Locations
appropriate type of transient prqtective device to be will a similar high pressure but the avalanche will gap,
used depends on the amount of surge energy to be develop more slowly, and the dependence of sparkover
dealt with. Generally, this energy decreases the further voltage on waveshape will be greater.
rate of dependence of sparkover voltage on energy to The get3 from the stroke. The surge away one
be expected can also be related crudely to the normal change of voltage partly relates to how long it takes,
and start a free electron to appear on average, for involved. One would power of the circuit operating
normally expect lower surge levels on low-voltage sig- the avalanche process. Commercially available spark
nal circuits than on medium-power control circuits, gaps frequently contain minute amounts of tritium or
dependence the reduce to elements radioactive other distri- power on main those than lower levels even and
voltage waveshape. voltage on spaikover of surge sup- use might logically one buses. Thus, bution
pression diodes on individual circuit, boards, varistors
on terminal boards, and spark gaps on leads running
to prime entry and exit points.
,1mm for air- are suitable that devices protective Circuit
craft applications and are commercially available in-
clude gas-filled spark gaps, specially fabricated Zener
diodes, and varistors. Each type has both advantages (a)
and disadvantages.
17.4.1 Spark Gaps
gaps: Incidental spark Sometimes spark gaps are inci-
dental to the construction of some other device, termi-
nal boards and connectors being examples. Whenever 7m
the voltage on the terminals becomes suffciently high
there will be a spark across or through the dielectric
and the voltage on connected devices will be limited. (b)
Generally such sparkover is unplanned and undesir- (b
able, particularly if it causes puncture and permanent
failure of solid dielectric, but the existence of such in-
cidental spark gaps should be recognized. Sparkover
across the surface of a dielectric might be allowable
and sometimes can be made to provide perfectly a&-
ceptable surge protection at minimal extra cost. - rmni
gaps: Intentional spark Usually, though, spark gaps Fig. 17.9 Outline sketches of spark gaps.
are composed of two metal electrodes separated by
a dielectric, held et a fixed distance from each other Sparkover voltage: Impulse sparkover voltages for
and sealed in a container. Electrodes may be spheri- gaps with metal electrodes operating in air at stan-
cal, but in sophisticated devices they are not. Not all dard atmospheric pressure will seldom be less than 1 -
spark gaps use metal elecrtodes and not all are sealed. 2 kV, even with very small spacing between the e0ec-
trodes. For commercial spark gaps, curves, such as Telephone circuits, for example, are often protected
441