+ ++"-""++
Α-JT
I
E electron
moves up
--
Γ 70
Fig. 2.5 Polarity considerations.
When the breakdown strength of the air is ex-
α and sharply increases air the into current ceeded,
bluish electrical discharge called corona forms around α
point. This discharge is the St. Elmo'σ fire discussed in
Chapter 1. The magnitude of the current from α single
discharge point may range from 1 or 2 microamperes
(4Α) to as high as 400 pA. This field induced corona
is generally less intense than the corona observed on
energized conductors and discussed in Chapter 1. The
presence of St. Elmo'σ fire should be taken as signify-
ing α dangerous condition to an exposed observer on
the ground, such as α mountain climber on an exposed
ridge. It is not necessarily an indicator that lightning
is imminent, however, since it only reflects the state of
the electric field at the ground surface, not at the base
of the clouds where lightning usually originates,
Corona from grounded objects does not develop
into α complete electrical arc or upwards lightning flash
because the electric field is very localized and does not
extend over α sufficient distance for streamers to prop-
agate. An important reason for this is that the charges
injected into the air by the corona accumulate and re-
duce the electric field strength at the ground surface.
Because of this space charge, α developing breakdown
in the air "sees" α much more uniform electrical surface
than would α microscopic observer at ground level,
2.2.3 Development of the Leader
At some state in the electrification of the cloud,
α somarge τ δ stowate the elechtrification o. Ithe χ ,
α discharge towards the earth takes place. It starts
pi- called the air of ionized column α slow moving as
per- has moved streamer pilot After the lot streamer.
the discharge called intense μ, α more 30 to 50 haps
addi- lowers discharge This place. takes leader stepped
tional negative charge into the region around the pilot
streamer, recharges it. so to speak, and allows it to
continue for another 30 to 50 μ, after which the cy-
cle repeats. Α discharge propagating in this manner is
called α streamer discharge; its development was dis-
cussed in Chapter and I is illustrated further on Fig.
2.6.
22

Omi " ι 4. *" 4. -
POSITIVE + - REGION , " € ÷4ι
(o) 4. *,'4,
o 0+++. o 0 + + +
o o,,, .... 4.:. too/ τ 4+ 000 ##
_ 1ý δ 4 * 0 0 τ τ404.÷ λ 0 { - \' κ "tt• o "()-,, 0 0
- ". ", / -- •
0* 4,4 CI
NEGATIVE ... , 1η) REGIONA to.
44
of α leader. Fig. 2.6 Stages in the development
If the initial development of the leader takes place
in the charged cloud, the developing streamer branches
and begins to collect charge from its surroundings. Be-
cause it collects charge in this way, the streamer may
be viewed as connected to the cloud and at the same
potential as the cloud. As the head of the leader moves
farther into the un-ionized air, charge flows down from
the charged regions of the cloud, along the partially
conducting filament and toward the head of the leader,
thus tending to keep all parts of the leader at α very
high potential. The amount of charge, lowered q., into
the leader will be on the order of 2 to 20 ξ 10-' C/mi
of length. Α leader 5 km long would then have stored
within it α charge of 1 to 10 C.
The leader, as postulated by Wagner [2.14], ap-
pears as shown on Fig. 2.7. The head of the leader
may have α larger diameter than the rest of the leader,
though this is difficult to prove by photographs. The
head of the leader is generally visible because of the
optical radiation associated with the extension of the
electron avalanches, but once the growth ceases, the
radiation stops; consequently, the corona sheath sur-
rounding the central conducting filament is not visible.
Since the potential of the leader is very high, there
will be α high radial electric field along the leader.
This field will be high enough to exceed the break-
down strength of the air, and secondary streamers will
brnhotadlyawyfmtecnrafimn.
filament. the central away from radially out branch
the field until radially branch out will filaments The
about falls to ionized region edge of the at the strength
kV/cm. 30
Diameter of the leader. It can be shown that the elec-
tric field strength at the edge of α cylinder containing
α charge, qo, per unit length is
0 Er = 1.8 ξ 1 0qo (2.1)
ρ