7.23 Fig.
(b)
Resistance measurements: Adequate electrical con-
ductivity and protection cannot be verified just
measuring the dc resistance between the door and
surrounding airframe and seeing that it is below some
arbitrary value, such as 2.5 milliohms. Shortcomings
of resistance measurements were previously discussed
in §6.2.5.
be to way only The protection: of Verification
tain that a protection design is adequate is to perform
lightning tests on production-like installations. Other
factors, such as mating surface finishes and fastener
torque or tightness play a role in protection effective-
ness and these factors, with appropriate tolerances,
should be accounted for in test planning and assess-
ment of results.
The SAE report [7.28] describes tests appropriate
for all zones.
7.6.3 Fuel Tank Sealant
to prevent possible not is it situations some In
sources of arcing around fasteners. In those cases the
arc products must be prevented from contacting fuel
vapors, often by coating the arc source with polysulfide
type tank sealant. In addition to preventing fuel leaks,
the sealant acts to contain the arcs and sparks which
occur at these fasteners during a strike attachment and
prevents contact of the arc products with the fuel va-
.
por space. Typical areas requiring sealant protection
include structural interfaces, fasteners which extend
through the tank skin from the exterior surface, and
internal fasteners and rivets which form part of the
members are current path, especially if the structural

Sslotted
gasket C),
opening
designs. gasket Alternative
(a) Conventional ring gasket
Ventilated gasket
of CFC material. A further discussion of sealant is
by given in §7.10.3.
the Protection requires that sealant application be
thorough and of sufficient thickness, with no voids, or
thinly applied areas.
Advantages of sealant: The advantages of sealant
following: the include cer-
1. Sealants may already be applied to prevent leaks.
Containment of arcs and sparks may only require
that the sealant be applied more thickly or over a
wider area.
2.
Easily applied.
3. Can be applied to existing designs.
of sealant: Disadvantages The disadvantages of
following: the include sealant all
Application is operator dependent. 1.
The adequacy of the sealant application depends
on the skill of the person applying the sealant, es-
pecially in areas of the tank which are difficult to
access. In these areas, even a skilled operator may
have difficulty in ensuring that sealant coverage is
complete without voids or thin spots. Some areas
may receive excessive sealant while others may
receive too little to contain the more energetic
arcs and sparks. Application also depends on how
to sealant guidelines. closely the operator adheres
195