systems, flight critical/essential aircraft δ. Identify
the within on or and locations equipment
(TCL) Levels Transient Control ε. Establish
(ETDL). Design Levels Transient Equipment
φ. Verify design adequacy.
follows, steps of these each of discussion Further
Location Zone - α Step 5.6.1
the in defined are zones strike The lightning
[5.2] in Chapter [oP.4] and also loi hpe circulars and [54 ν sory
protection α in step first The handbook. this
location' of the zones is certification program and
specific aircraft.
questions some of the section addresses This
of establishment arisen recently concerning have
an For example, and boundaries. locations
have inlet engine α wing-mounted nose and
(α direct strike IA to be in Zone been considered
but the of flash hang-on), low probability with
often been has not this zone of rearward extent
almost leader will α lightning Whereas lished.
α nose, of most extremity the forward attach to
the sweep may of the aircraft movement tinued
α nacelle for fuselage or the channel alongside
arrival and flash of the completion to distance prior
in the is included (which stroke return first the
environment). 1Α
the past, the rearward 1: In of Zone extent Rearward
has been of little interest Zone 1Α extent of
have structures engine nacelle fuselage and most
withstand Zone that easily aluminum skins IA
skins Replacement of aluminum ning cturrents.
aspect makes this however, advanced composites,
greater take on much lightning strike zone location
aircraft, that for some Analysis shows portance.
aft of the initial several meters may extend 1Α
lightning some in-flight point, and attachment
altitude and confirm this. The tend to incidents
factors to be important are shown of the aircraft
the probability in determining zones, and establishing
zoues. within these of severe strikes
Zone zone defini- 1: FAA of In earlier extent Lateral
13.41, of (5.2] and by those tions, now superseded
aircraft all surfaces of the included Zone regions I
tip (measured of the wing within inches I are located
and other the aircraft) axis of to the lateral parallel
leading edges as the nose, nacelle such projections
Zone definitions described earlier FAA tail. These
as being

edge ... (the) trailing 18 inches of within "...
tail stabilizer, vertical and horizontal of the aircraft.
other protuberances" cone and any and
to 18 inch criterion apply the did not but they
however, By custom, behind leading edges. surfaces
the first 18 inches aft of α leading edge or other
considered been also have object forward-projecting
Zone to be within 1.
including areas, I Zone of aft further Surfaces
of side each to laterally inches 18 areas "... advi-
3 Zone for- I through the lines passing of fore-aft attachment" ward projection points of stroke φ
design
Zone within been considered have traditionally on 2.
for one second or may exist flash Since α lightning
their own travel more than and most aircraft can more, that
regions have usually Zone 2 this time, the length in zone
or fuselage the way aft along all the extended been aircraft
Fig. in the aircraft for was done as the wing, across always
zone 5.7.
and 2 extensions of Zone I The 18 inch lateral possible
attachment lightning scatter of typical for the account estab-
of the tortuosity and the strike areas points in direct always
In- 2 surfaces. along Zone channel as it sweeps flash con-
confirm to has tended lightning strike experience flight leader
Fig. 5.7, direct example of this judgment. Thus, in the finite
tips, wing at the 18 inches inboard extend zones strike of
are 36 the wings across zones stroke swept the and Zone
width of the engine the maximum wider than inches
also are each wing of inches 18 inboard The nacelles.
to the fuselage. proximity due to their in Zone 2
lightning strike either of the of The significance because
lo- and other objects structures is that skins, had zones
tolerate the be designed to zones must cated in these light-
attachments. lightning strike swept direct or effects of with
skins fuel tank example, the integral In Fig. 5.7, for of
enough to be thick were required aft of the nacelles im-
currents, whereas lightning strike swept to withstand Zone
to be this thick. perhaps not have in Zone would 3 leader skins
strike
the terms Over the years, stroke zoom : speed Swept swept
become synony- Zone have and swept stroke in strok
strike and terms direct 2, and the mous with Zone
this 1, although have meant Zone direct strike sone
in stated been specifically has never relatiotship any
as unfortunate, usage may be This FAA documents.
become evident. will
the
to The lightning currents zom: each Currents for that
5.3 and found in Τ1ble in each zone are be expected
apply shaded components The in Fig. 5.8. illustrated
zone indicated. and in each
at the nose 1 or areas the Zone 8.8 In Fig. IA I
α distance extended aft edges were and other leading
104