9466 kilolines. to change by the flux would require
of about area α cross sectional core would need ferrite
350 square inches, square centimeters, or about 2400
α large core indeed!
in α trans- magnetic flux Α given vs current: Voltage
α given magnetizing with core is associated former
given mag- of turns, α number or, for α fixed force
pulse α that developing current. It follows netizing
volt-second having α certain 18.17(α), voltage, Fig.
from an initial change current to requires the product,
Which α final value. 18.17(β), to value, zero in Fig.
α matter is somewhat first, voltage or current comes
has been magnetic core say that α One can semantics.
magnetizing current, by excessive to saturation carried
core that α helpful to consider most but it is generally
excessive product by an has been carried to saturation
and time. of voltage
V
I.tIIt (β)
(β) of voltage. as the integral Current Fig. 18.17
(α) Voltage
(β) Current
to in- pulses applied current most exciting Since
to zero, it decay back eventually transformers jection
with be associated current will that α collapsing follows
was asso- that which to polarity opposite α voltage of
illustrates 18.18 Fig. current. of rise the with ciated
underdamped will be voltage pulse The the point.
having negative (Α ) lobes (Al) and the positive with 2
products. equal volt-second
cur- exponential α double way, another Phrased
pulse injec- α of the primary through passed pulse rent
volt- α unidirectional induce cannot transformer tion
in α secondary wind- of the same waveshape age pulse
ing.

AII
(α)
I of
IIvAk of AAI 1
2
τ
(β)
current. derivative of as the Fig. 18.18 Voltage
(α) Current
(β) Voltage
The magnetic characteristics of α ma Β-H loops:
loop, Fig. by its - H be defined material can netic Β
cross- flux per unit and H are, respectively, 18.19. Β
unit length force per area and magnetizing sectional
dimensions specific of core transformer α For path. of
4 in terms of and loop could be defined the NI.
1 (or)0 Β
/
(χ)
H (or) NI 0
(δ)
4
loop. - H 18.19 Fig. Β
pulse core α current initially unmagnetized an For
(α) from path along state magnetic the carry might
al- would current the 1. Removing to point 0 point
to point (β) path to follow state the magnetic low
density point 1 represents α flux 2. Assuming that
α gauss), (16 000 square centimeter per kilolines of 16
476