Blades Rotor 6.7.2
blades or rotating rotor helicopter In general,
wings are similar to propeller blades in their lightning
performance. The main difference is the greater size
of the rotor blades. The larger size often will involve
greater complexity in terms of heater blankets for de-
ice and tip lights. Such additional systems will usu-
ally require that protection be designed and applied
other than metal blades.
6.7.3 Gear Boxes
propellers or rotor currents entering Lightning
blades must exit to the aircraft through the gears
supporting the propeller or rotor shaft. and bearings
The conduction of these currents through the bearings,
which are supported on insulating lubricant films, will
result in some pitting of the bearing surfaces. This
does not appear to be a major problem since there
do not appear to be any records of any catastrophic
failures of bearings associated with lightning strikes,
Engine manufacturers, however, have always recom-
mended that gear boxes and bearings be disassembled
and inspected after a strike. This usually results
replacement of the bearing since it is not possible
differentiate between arc pitting and wear. There does
not appear to be any way of avoiding such pitting since
lightning current will always go through the bearing.
There are no practical ways of diverting current
away from the bearings,
not recom- generally do manufacturers Helicopter
mend bearing inspections, but depend on gearbox chip
counter circuits to indicate the conditions of bearings
and gears.
Engines Turbine 6.7.4
Small turbine engines, especially those mounted
on the fuselage, may experience turbine stall or roll-
back during a lightning event. The phenomenon
thought to be caused by the lightning channel inter-
rupting the air flow at the engine air inlet. Numerous
cases of power loss have been reported [6.29] and in
one particular instance both engines sustained a flame-
out. Damage to the engine or nacelle is generally not
observed. No protective measures are known, other
than pilots being aware of the problem and practiced
in restart procedures.
Testing Effects Direct 6.8
.
Lightning tests on aircraft are an attempt to du-
plicate the of lightning, not an attempt to du- effects
plicate lightning itself. The point is important because
the exigencies of test equipment make it necessary
evaluate the high voltage effects of lightning separately

is not machinery Test effects. current high from the
available to duplicate the energy levels of lightning,
involved of the magnitude currents is, to produce that
in the lightning return stroke while simultaneously du-
plicating the high voltages of a developing lightning
leader. High voltages can readily be developed and
high currents can readily be developed, but not si-
multaneously by the same machines. Also, a focus
to on lightning effects, rather than lightning itself, makes
it feasible to perform high current testing with wave-
light- by natural produced from those different shapes
ning.
elaborated upon in the fol- These points will be
lowing sections. Mostly the discussion will be that of
sec- 6.8.1, dealing with test machinery. That Section
tion will describe the methods of operation and factors
governing performance, cost and tradeoffs of test ma-
chinery. Section 6.8.2 will discuss test standards and
test procedures, including some discussion of the back-
ground of their development. That discussion will be
brief because there are other documents that cover test
standards and procedures in considerable depth.
Test Equipment 6.8.1
in
to There are basically two types of test made on air-
craft to evaluate direct effects: (a) high voltage dis-
charge tests to help identify where lightning might at-
tach, and to evaluate the efficacy of lightning diverters
(b) injection of high currents into objects to evalu- and
ate their resistance to the burning and blasting effects
strokes. of the return
High voltage surge generators: High voltages of the
magnitude, hundreds and thousands of kilovolts, as-
pro- are commonly leader lightning the with sociated
duced by slowly charging a group of capacitors in par-
allel and rapidly discharging them in series, "Marx"
generators, after the inventor. They were originally
is developed for testing the degree to which the insula-
tion of high voltage electric power transmission equip-
ment could resist the high voltages produced nat- by
ural lightning striking power transmission lines. That
remains their most common use today, a fact that
has influenced standardized waveshapes, including the
waveshapes used for evaluating lightning effects on air-
craft.
Several configurations are pnssible for impulse
Each 6.56. in Fig. shown is which of one generators,
of the capacitors is initially charged to a voltage V
through resistors, as shown in Fig. 6.56(a). Then,
all the switches, are closed simultane- S1, $2, S3 ...
ously, thus connecting all the capacitors in series, as
to shown in Fig. 6.56(b), and allowing them to discharge
through the external waveshaping circuit. Charging
159