Most test methods also assume linearity; that is, discussed sinct that response is essentially the same
that the response of the aircraft to α low level test can whatever the test level.
reasonably be extrapolated to estimate the response
Basic Test Circuit 13.3.1 to full thrzat lightning.
Resistive effects: Most of the test methods provide As reduced to lumped constants, the basic pulse
good simulation of the effects of resistance in the air- test circuit is shown in Fig. 13.1. Energy is stored in
craft structure and the assumption of linearity is gener- α capacitor, conducted into the aircraft and returned
ally valid, even for aircraft using large amounts of CFC to the capacitor along α return circuit. Duration of
materials. Studies that have been made of the point current is controlled by the capacitance and series re-
[13.1, 13.2] have generally shown that predicted resis- sistance while front time is controlled by resistance and
tively coupled voltages, as predicted on an assumption series inductance, some of which may be intentionally
of linearity, are if anything higher than any likely to added to the surge generator and some of which will be
the return circuit. If single intrinsic to the aircraft and be found in actual practice.
wires are used for the connections between the gener-
Magnetic field effects: The simulations also provide ator and the aircraft, the inductance of the circuit can
reasonable estimates of the magnetic field effects pro- be approximated as 1 pH/μ or 0.3 pH/ft times the
duced by lightning current. What this means is that total distance around the circuit.
waveshapilng current pulse of level α low by produced the response
can be scaled linearly to give the response to α high Λ aircraft switch
level pulse of current, provided the waveforms of the
currents are the same. The point is discussed further
in §13.3.3.
test meth- any of the Whether effects: field Electric
ef- field electric the of simulation good provide ods
fects is less clear. Electric field coupling involves the
/7"7 electric field at the surface of the air- strength of the
craft, but this can be influenced very greatly by the
corona and streamers that appear around the aircraft
when it is struck. Both of these are very non-linear
Λ the elec- limit streamers corona and phenomena. The ..
tric field at the surface and may limit the electric field χ
I coupling. Also, the circuits used for ground based air- C
craft tests probably do not give the same ratio of mag- I
netic to electric field effects as is found in flight. This
chapter will not attempt to address the question of
whether electric field effects are correctly simulated; Fig. 13.1 Basic test circuit.
all it will do is alert the reader that there are ques- (α) Generic
tions about electric field coupling. (β) Practical test circuit
Some of the issues will be discussed in the follow-
ing paragraphs, along wit η methods of obtaining an
electromagnetic environment that is as representative Coaxial return circuits: Using α single wire adja-
as possible of that produced by natural lightning, cent to the aircraft, Fig. 13.2(α), is not .commended
as the way to return the current to the generator be-
Tests Pulse Domain Time 13.3 fields to the magnetic respond would aircraft the cause
produced current in the return wire, as well as to by
All pulse testing basically involves charging capac- the electric and magnetic fields produced by current
itors and then discharging them through waveshaping in the aircraft. Α coaxial geometry, with the aircraft
elements into the aircraft. Differences between var- as the center conductor and the return path as the
ious techniques relate mostly to the energy levels of outer conductor, Fig. 13.2(β). is better. indicated As
the surge generators and the techniques and degree of in §9.7.2, current on α cylindrical conductor produces
extrapolation needed to estimate full threat responses no magnetic field inside the conductor. In practice,
sur- is formed from an array of wires Before dis- the return circuit made at less than full threat. from tests
cussing various approaches to testing, the basic re- rounding the aircraft, shown in as Fig. 13.2(χ), though
sponse of an aircraft in α pulse test circuit will be sometimes metal cheets are used.
354