to again oscillatory with α frequency tending nature of the response of the fields rent was The different
to the length of the cable bundle. the gun bay and the battery compartment can correspond inside
bays The fourth point was that tbe equipment explained in terms of the types of covers and fas- be
aircraft, not being designed for electromagnetic compartments. The cover over in this teners used on the two
of magnetic flux by fasten- shielding, allowed significant amounts the battery compartment was held in place
true develop within those bays. This is particularly every 3.8 cm., and hence made good to ers spaced about
intended for ease of access. As α rule to the rest of the airframe. The use of multi- of those bays contact
it might be expected that on aircraft, the resulted in many paths on which current of thumb, pie fasteners
housing electronic equipment might of the current flow) equipment bays could flow (minimum constriction
more with ease of circulating well be fitted with covers designed and provided minimum resistance to the
in mind than with magnetic shielding qualities the battery compartment. access current within
those enclo- thus be expected that they in mind. It must on the other hand, since The gun bay covers,
the electromagnetic shielding should in designed for ease of access, had far sures for which were originally
those enclosures principle be the greatest may well be fasteners. The fasteners in the gun bay, in fact, fewer
shielding. poorest having the the cover 30 cm. Accordingly, about every were spaced
fields indi-" of magnetic Finally, the measurements α much greater constriction gun bay provided on the
manner be any clear-cut will seldom that there did cated resistance than much greater flow and α of current
to pick can be oriented so as wiring in which electrical Both of these compartment. cover on the battery the
hence field and of magnetic value up the minimum within the the field nature to allow were of α factors
best as- might One voltages. induced minimum have the field did faster than value its peak reach bay to gun
will always at any point field that the magnetic sume points about These compartment. battery within the
assume should case. Also, one worst oriented in the be in §11.7 further are discussed influence of fasteners the
oscilla- be more fields will magnetic the internal that Fig. 11.43. and
external magnetic fields, this because of calculate, with reasonable accu- tory than the It is practical to
dependent transmis- and the frequency air- re--radiation fields within an magnetic and electric racy, the
apertures. through sion of energy of the aircraft. geometry of the given knowledge craft,
air- determine in this to made was attempt No in discussed are this doing for techniques Numerical
could voltages circuit any to which degree the craft strength the knowledge of α 10-12. From Chapters
was conductors. It shielded of the use by reduced be the predict can one fields electric and the magnetic of
α shield in which circuits on those that however, on noted, and current induced of 'voltage of magnitude order
was grounded at more for doing this was used and in which the shield aircraft wiring. Simplified techniques
more tended shield that on current the point, one than cal- the of accuracy The 14. in Chapter discussed are
of waveshape exponential double slower the have to magnitude of order but questionable, be may culations
high- the have to than current lightning external the sufficient. be may estimates
frequency oscillatory current excited on all of the un-
bundles. Some significant points about shielded cable Significant conclusions:
summarized the results of tests on this aircraft can be
Aircraft Carbon Fiber Composite 8.7.3 α single-point here. The first was that the use of
emphatically did not eliminate ground system most
the wiring of induced in and currents Voltages by the flow of lightning voltage produced all transient
or gra- aircraft using carbon fiber composite (CFC), through the structure of the aircraft. current
materials for structural members are very Τ'ie second was that the characteristic response phite/epoxy,
aircraft made entirely was α different from those induced in of the ,viring, both for voltage and for current,
metal aircraft the resistance of in the range to 5 from Eluminum. In α 1 damped oscillation with α frequency
current the structure is very low and the lightning The very abbreviated series of test results just MHz.
flows mostly on the metal surface. Only relatively presented does not indicate the fact clearly, but the
internal wiring and internal oscillation depended considerably on the small amounts flow on frequency of
flow and in general the duration of current involved: the longer the physical structures length of the circuit
current. is no longer than that of the external lightning of the wires, the lower the oscillatory frequen- length
α much higher re- since the response In α CFC aircrafc the structure has cies. This was not α clear-cut rule,
α much larger fraction of the lightning greatly influenced by the high sistance and of any one circuit was
internal wiring End in- circuits. current eve:itually flows on the degree of coupling between all of the different
the current may flow on the the total cur- ternal str'cture. Initially The third significant point is that
transfers to external structure, but at later times it on any cable bundle was of the order of 20 to 100 rent
the inside, α process called redistribution and which is Α for an average lightning flash. This bulk cable cur-
240