composite (CFC). Because of their long duration, the
distribution of these currents among the various air-
frame conductors are primarily controlled by the re-
sistance of the conductors, rather than by their induc-
tance.
The source impedance associeted with Waveform
will tend to 5 approach the dc resistance of the struc-
ture or shield across which the driving voltage is de-
veloped and may be as low as α few milliohms. Aside
from the high energy content, the major concern in
airframe wiring with this current waveform is that the
accompanying voltages are sometimes insufficient to
activate suppression devices and allow the current to
be diverted away from paths where it may cause dam-
age.
Waveform is typical 5Α of the' currents developed
in low impedance conductors 5 ohms) such as (-C
shields, power wires or other circuits with suppression
devices at both ends. Current amplitudes associated
with Waveform will tend 5Α to be low to non-existent
inside of an all metallic fuselage, but could be quite
high on equipment with interfaces subject to α direct
lightning strike, such as lights, antennas, and various
pressure and temperature probes.
Waveform 5Β occurs in much the same manner as
Waveform 5Α, but is observed more often in conduc-
tor6 within structures CFC because of the higher cur-
rents that result from resistive sharing with the struc-
ture. Curnent amplitudes associated with Waveform
5Β will tend to be very high in CFC structures. Am-
plitudes may be hundreds of amperes in smaller gauge
conductors, such as power and low impedance signal
wires, and thousands of amperes in the larger gauge
conductors, such as shields and power buses.
Multiple stroke waveforms: Simultation of the ef-
fects of the multiple stroke lightning currents defined
in §5.5.6 involves applying one of the internal airframe
waveforms to the operating system under test. Each
pulse of the multiple stroke flash is represented by the
ielected internal waveform, which is scaled to repre-
sent the peak amplitude induced by the appropriate
lightning components Α and Δ/2. In some situations,
more than one of the internal wvaveforms may be re-
quired to satisfy the system design requirements for
multiple stroke.
Multiple burst waveforms: Practices regarding sirau-
lation of the effects of the multiple burst lightning cur-
rents defined in §5.5.6 are still evolving. The trend is
toward using the damped oscillatory waveform 3, but
no consensus has yet developed as to what frequencies,
levels and rate of application are approp.-iate.

Categories of equipment for various levels: What
transient test level is appropriate for various types of
equipment is α task for the system integrator to decide.
Guidance is offered in [16.1 and 16.13].
Level 1 (I): This level would be appropriate for equip-
ment and interconnecting wiring installed entirely in
α well protected environment, such as an avionics bay
enclosed in an all-metal aircraft.
Level 2 (J): This level would be appropriate where
the equipment and interconnecting wiring are in α par-
tially protected environment, such as an avionics bay
enclosed in an aircraft composed principally of metal.
Level 3 (K): This level would be appropriate for equip-
ment and interconnecting wiring installed in α mod-
erately exposed envwronment, such as the cockpit or
flight deck of an aircraft composed principally of metal.
asd Levels 4 5 (Λ and Μ): These levels pertain to
equipment and interconnecting wiring in severe elec-
tromagnetic environments, such as aircraft of which
large portions are fabricated with composite material
and where no special shielding measures have been
taken. 6
Other waveforins: The waveforms TCL discussed in
[16.1 and 16.13] are not the only ones currently called
for in specifications. Some of them call for damped
sine waves as shown on Fig. 16.12, Waveform 3, the
waveforms being defined as
/Q) sin (2-rt)] (16.1) = EO E [C-(wJ
Frequencies range from 1 MHz to 50 MHz (or
more). Source impedance is generally specified as 100
ohms resistive.
These specifications call for specific damping fac-
tors, such as Q 6 or Q 24, damping factors not = =
necessarily consistent with those defined in FAA and
related documents. Figs. 16.13(α) and (β) show waves
with those damping factors.
16.7 Common Problems in Specifications
Since transient specifications and techniques for
controlling transients are still evolving there are situ-
ations where specifications are poorly worded or im-
properly applied.
Α common error is to call for tests to be made on
equipment within the aircraft at levels that are only
appropriate for equipment located on the outside of
the aircraft and exposed directly to α lightning flash.
Most commonly this situation arises through misappli-
434