Units of Field Intensity: In all the cases the units
field intensity are amperes per meter if the radii are
measured in meters. H is, of course, the measure
magnetizing force per unit area. The density of the
 2 magnetic flux, measured in webers per meter , is
(10.5) Β = LH
1
where the permeability is, for air, 47ρ ξ H/μ. 10-7
If the conductor is not cylindrical, as shown
Fig. 10.1(χ), the field intensity at different points on
the surface will be different. However, the average field
intensity will still be equal to the total current divided
by the circumference:
= (10.6) H~vS I/PrU
Hn •I
( ra
ro U
-
(χ)H
Cducting =
Fig. 10.1 Magnetic fields around current-carrying
conductors.
(α) Current-carrying filament
(β) Tubular conductor
(χ) Irreguldx conductor
will intensity field actual The curvature: of Radius
radius the where points average than be greater At
of curvature is less than average and it will be less
than average at points where the radius of curvature
is greater than average, as show, in Fig. 10.2. For
example, the circumference of the fuselage of α typical
fighter aircraft just forward of itb wing is about 5.5 μ.
Assuming α lightning stroke current of 30 kA to flow
through the fuselage, the average field intensity at the
surface would be:
Hag I/Π = 5
30000/5.5 =
= 545τ Α/μ. (10.7)

0
of Since for that aircraft there are no points of very sharp
radius, the field intensity around the fuselage would
of probably not vary greatly from the average value. If
the fuselage cannot be approximated as α flattened
cylinder, then the field intensity would have to be cal-
culated by more sophisticated means.
The situation along α wing carrying lightning cur-
rent is considerably different in that the leading and
in trailing edges have radii of curvature much less than
the average. Field intensity along the leading and trail-
ing edges would be quite high compared to the field
intensity along the top and bottom surfaces, for ex-
ample.
Fig. 10.3 shows, in general, how the magnetic
field strengths would vary with position on an aircraft
if α lightning flash enters through the nose pitot boom
and leaves through the vertical stabilizer. The field in-
tensity would be highest around the pitot boom, low-
est around the midsection of the fuselage, and high
again around the vertical stabilizer. In the vicinity of
the nose equipment bays, the field would be of greater
than average intensity. Since the field intensity is in-
versely proportional to the radius of curvature, it then
follows that the field intensity outside the fuselage of
large transport aircraft would be considerably less
than that outside the small fighter aircraft shown on
Fig. 10.3.
Since both the average current density, and Jvs,
the average field density, H'vg are equal to the total
current divided by the circumference, it follows that
at the surface of α con- the tangential field intensity
object is equal to the current density at that
point:
-= Have J. ve (10.8) =
This is in fact true, at least for transient currents. The
relation is not true for dc currents or transients suffi-
ciently slow that appreciable magnetic fields penetrate
the skin.
H--
Havo > H
H < Havo
Havo
H Havg
Fig. 10.2 Field intensity vs radius of curvature.
276