multiple strokes associated with transients
environ- external of the aspect burst multiple the
of flight. safety endanger not should ment
by direct should not be endangered E. Flight safety
to eAposed of the lightning channel attachment
as on fair- Coverings, such system components.
prevent and cowls, should normally ings, skins
channel to of the lightning rect attachment
if α direct components. However, derlying system
to α system compo- strike attachment lightning
of both α complete evaluation nent can occur,
and indirect effects will be necessary. rect
and flight performance effects on system Upset
time dura- parameters such as safety should consider
on the operation upset, the effects of upset tion of
var- during the the time of occurrence the system, and
modes of the aircraft. ious flight
5.8 Test Plans
the certification α part of are to be When tests
prepared which test should be for each process, plans
of the test; purpose include the following: describe or
utilized; article config- or test article to be production
method of installa- drawing, as required; uration; test
installation; appli- the production tion that simulates
simulation method; lightning lightning zone(σ); * cable
diag- waveforms to be used; voltage or current test
the appropriate criteria, and methods, pass/fail nostic
test(σ). location(σ) of proposed schedule(σ) and
should be taken steps that Some of the procedural
the following: include
the test plan is ad- concurrence that Α. Obtain FAA
equate.
confor- part of details on concurrence FAA Obtain Β.
conformity installation and article the test mity of
setup. test the of
conformity should installation and conformity Part
to the similarity viewpoint of the from be judged
Development installation. and parts production
acceptable are installations simulated and parts
repre- adequately to shown be can they provided
the of mechanical features and electrical the sent
the specific for installation and parts production
by justified be should Adequacy tests. lightning
the from concurrence receive and applicant the
FAA.
often conducted lightning tests are Exploratory
α process both development cycle, early in the
encouraged. These development recognized and
certification purposes for data may be considered

in- and simulated development parts provided the and
If it above. criteria stated the meet stallations
development from results that is contemplated
certifica- candidates for test results will become
of this advance notice tion data. then adequate
FAA for review should be given to the approach
and acceptance.
di-
witnessing of the test(σ). C. Schedule FAA un-
Δ. Conduct testing.
all results. test report describing E. Submit α final di-
the report. approval of FAA F. Obtain
of
REFERENCES
5.1 Bonding, Electrical and Lightning Protection, for
Specification US Military Systems, Aerospace
1964. 15 October MIL-Β-5087Β,
Fhel Airplane 5.2 Against Fuel Systems of Protection
AC 20- Due FAA to Lightning, Vapor Ignition
Washing- Administration, Federal Aviation 53Α,
1985. ton, Δ.C., 12 April
FAA AC 20-1309, 5.3 and Analysis, System Design
Washington, Aviation Administration, Federal
June 21, 1988 Δ.C.,
5.4 Circular: Protec- Draft Advisory Recommended
Systems Electrical/Electronic tion of Aircraft
Report Lightning, of Effects Indirect the Against
Febru- 4 AE4-Λ, AE4Λ-87-3, SAE Committee of
ary 1987.
5.5 and Protection of Aerospace Vehicles Lightning
1986. May 30 1795, Standard DOD US Hardware,
Aero- for Techniques Test 5.6 Qualification Lightning
Stan- Military US Hardware, and Vehicles space
1980. June 17 MIL-STD-1757, dard
Against Systems Fuels 5.7 Aircraft of Protection
Fed- 25-3, Circular Advisory US FAA Lightning,
Δ.C., Washington, Administration, Aviation eral
1965. November 10
for 5.8 Techniques and Waveforms Teat Lightning
SAE of Report Hardware, and Vehicles Aerospace
1976. May 5 F, Task Special AE-4, Committee
Α Pierce, Τ. E. and Cianos N. 5.9 Ground-Lightning
Re- Technical Use, Engineering for Environment
Institute Research Stanford by 1, Prepared port
Coin- Douglas Astronautics for the McDonnell
1972. Beach, CA, August pany, Huntington
Techniques and 5.10 for Test Waveforms Lightning
of SAE and Hardware, Report Vehicles Aerospace
20 June 1978. Committee AE-4Λ,
113