and have the same waveshape. Under these ideal
ditions there would be no limit to the amount of
rent that could be injected by α core.
In practice, two factors, shown in Fig. 18.23,
to limit the amount of current that may be trans-
formed. One is brought about by the resistance
the conductor upon which current is induced. Current
through that resistance develops α voltage which leads
to an increase in core flux, even though the induced
voltage may be distributed along the conductor and
not measurable. The other is that the magnitude of
the induced current will be less, by virtue of leakage
inductance, than the inducing current, irrespective
the resistance of the conductor. The net result is that
eventually and will 01 be less than will always 02
cay to zero. For sufficient the Α1 net flux in the core
can increase until the core is saturated, at which point
transformer action ceases.
Since long conductors have more resistance than
short conductors, it follows that it is harder to induce
ones. than short current on long conductors
current induci
induced current1 "ι ε cEquivalent
in
Fig. Effect of conductor 18.23 resistance
on core flux.
Injection of Circuits Equivalent 18.4.2
Transformers
Some of the parameters affecting the response of
α complete current injection system are shown in Fig.
18.24. These include the capacitance of the storage
capacitor; the inductance of the leads connecting
storage capacitor to the transformer; the primary, sec-
ondary, and leakage inductances of the transformer;
and the inductance and resistance of the conductor
under test.
0!: Is Λ.
-Λ, " Λ' Re Λ
Σ,-
Fig. 18.24 Factors affecting performance of
an injection transformer.

I
con- The characteristics of the injection transformer
cur- are among the most important properties. These pa-
rameters relate to the primary and secondary induc-
act tances, the flux in the transformer core, and the pro-
portion of flux produced by current in the primary that
of links the secondary winding. The difference in these
two fluxes is the leakage flux, and it is the leakage
flux that prevents the secondary current from being as
large as the primary current.
Determining inductance: For α given transformer, the
primary and secondary magnetizing inductances may
of either be measured on an inductance bridge or be de-
termined by discharging α known capacitor through
of oscillation. frequency observing the winding and de- the
The magnetizing inductance can also be determined
from the average slope of the Β - H curve:
dO
(18.14) N = Λ
related to the degree which is Mutual inductance,
of coupling between windings, can be determined by
connecting the primary and secondary windings in se-
in are up set fields magnetic two the that so first ries,
the same direction (series aiding) and then so the mag-
netic fields are in opposite directions (series bucking),
as shown in Fig. 18.25(α).
circuit of transformer: Knowing the pri-
mary, secondary, and mutual inductances, one can pro-
duce an equivalent circuit of an injection transformer.
One such circuit is the Pi circuit of Fig. 18.25(β). If
the number of turns on the primary winding is equal to
the number on the secondary winding (the usual case),
the circuit reduces to that of Fig. 18.25(χ). The ba-
is induced can be that current the governing factor sic
shunt the to inductance series leakage the of the ratio
magnetizing inductance. Leakage inductance is not
particularly affected by saturation of the transformer,
but saturation does affect magnetizing the inductance.
When the core saturates, the shunt impedance drops
the to α low value and diverts current from the conductor
under test.
Complete equivalent circuit: Α complete equivalent
circuit, Fig. 18.26, includes the parameters of the
transient generator and the conductor under test, and
 τ possibly the stray capacitance of the injection ;ans-
former.
For α typical small injection transformer, Fig.
18.27(α), the measured parameters were as shown
circuit that an equivalent Fig.18.27(β), indicating in
would as shown in be Fig. 18.27(χ).
Effects of multiple turns: The transformers are not
constrained to be operated with only one turn on each
478