voltage to remove the was used view of the camera of
study had pro- the gap under breakdown in before the
of the the length By adjusting gressed to completion.
gap under study in the gap the phenomena parallel
the develop- stages in at different could be observed
of the early A photograph the breakdown. ment of
exten- shows a very breakdown, Fig. 1.16, stages of
from the tentacles extending set of sive and diffuse
The pho- is the corona. This impulsed electrode. first
passes lens which through a quartz was taken tograph
does a conven- ultraviolet spectrum than the more of
with a glass lens taken glass lens. A photograph tional
diffuse corona. little of the would show very
streamer. of a Growth 1.17 Fig.
breakdown. 1.18 Completed Fig. corona. Fig. 1.16 Initial
breakdown the while (mechanically or electronically) the and longer made was gap parallel the When
on recorded image the is that result The in process. is Fig. stage, a later to progress to allowed discharge
of function a as displayed and spread out is film the gap entire the bridged corona this of portion one 1.17,
(framing steps in discrete moved is lens If the time. to began channel conducting and more a brighter and
be can breakdown a developing 1.19(a), Fig. mode), pro- and electrode (negative) lower the around form
snapshots. instantaneous of series a as photographed is This corona. the by bridged space the into gressed
(streak continuously is moved lens the commonly More the at develop streamers Similar a streamer. called
The is blurred. image the and 1.19(b), Fig. mode), to see are difficult but they (positive) electrode, upper
as a bright photographs of the leader head was luminous process the breakdown When through the corona.
luminous other while gap the bridging band gradually breakdown chan- the to completion to progress allowed
leader. the behind as a band show processes the of the center At 1.18. on Fig. as shown was nel
and The downward region where seen the gap can be
cam- Boys the called early camera, An camera: Boys of propagation of direction The joined. leaders upward
mechanically lens the moved inventor, the after era, extending branches faint the by be seen can leaders the
pro- breakdown the study used to widely has been and channel. main the side of the to
same the devices achieve Modem lightning. in cesses
. an on is formed image optical An electronically. effect gap parallel of using a technique The Streak camera:
that from electrons the and surface emitting electron seldom is now breakdown developing interrupt the to
(magnetic lens electron with an focussed are surface cameras. use of streak makes technique modem used;
producing screen phosphorescent a onto electrical) or on shown is camera streak a of principle basic The
a con- with be photographed then can which image an lens the of moving consists It basically 1.19. Fig.
11