Self-inductance in terms of GMR: Section 9.5 intro-
duced the concept of geometric mean radius, GMR,
and the of some common geometries was given GMR
in Fig 9.3. The self inductance of any conductor can be
evaluated by finding the mutual inductance between
two filaments separated by the of the conductor, GMR
As an example, consider α circular tubular conductor
with α very thin wall. From Fig. 9.3 the is GMR
equal to the physical radius. Substituting the GMR
into Eq. 9.55 for the mutual inductance of two fila-
ments gives the same formulation as Eq. 9.58 for the
self inductance of α conductor of radius ρ.
This approach to formulating self-inductance is
of most benefit for irregularly shaped conductors, Fig.
9.18. It also provides α way of evaluating the internal
inductance of conductors, as discussed in the following
section.
- _-------
- - -- ----------
GMR
Fig. 9.18 Self inductance in terms of geometric
mean radius,
Internal Inductance of conductors: All of the for-
mulations of §9.7.3 relate only to the fields external
the for valid being formulations the the conductors, to
high frequency case where skin effects confine current
to the surface of conductors. At lower freqen-ies cur-
rent penetrates into the conductors and α magnetic
field is established within the conductor, Fig. 9.19.
The maximum internal flux occurs with solid conduc-
tore and at dc where the current density is uniform.
Under such conditions the flux density varies as the
distance from the center. The total flux within the
conductor and the internal inductance are found to
be:
•! webers (9.72) = I
from which
0 5( Ξ 1 Σ$
 0.0 H/μ. (9.73) Σ -

4
3
external flux
.4
... 4 5 3
distance
Fig. 9.19 Internal and external field density.
GMR as applied to internal inductance: An al-
ternative approach to internal inductance involves the
concept of geometric mean radius. In Fig. 9.1 the
ln(1/4) of α disk of radius ρ was shown GMR to be ρ
or 0.7788ρ. Substituting this value into Eq. 9.58 for
the mutual inductance of two filaments gives the total
inductance of the conductor under dc conditions:
Lii =2ξ τ]H/μ'. (9.74) 1O-'1lIn2!-1+
The difference in inductance between the value given
by Eq. 9.57 (treating only external inductance) and
that of Eq. 9.74 is the internal inductance, or the
inductance due to magnetic flux within the conductor.
Numerically, for non-magnetic conductors, it is
2 ξ 10-?
0,05 AH/μ (9,75) = = 4
While the internal inductance is generally small
compared to the external inductaihce, it is intimately
linked with the transient resistance of conductors. The
transient resistance and internal inductance of con-
ducting bodies is of such importance to how lightning
currents penetrate into aircraft that the subject of in-
ternal impedance is discussed in much morm detail in
§9.9 and Chapter 10.
Practical equatious for inductance 9.7.4
Equations have been developed for the inductance
of almost any geometry, the best collection appearing
in (9.41. Equations for α few selected geometries are
presented below. Inductances are in microhenres &Ad
dimensions are in centimeters.
257