configured so as to minimize internal inductance, with
Fig. 6.60 showing α representative configuration. The
maximum peak current available from α capacitor
bank depends on the circuit inductance, part of which
is internal and somewhat under the control of the bank
designer and part of which is associated with the test
object and the connecting leads. This latter depends
on the size of the test object and may be the induc-
tance that limits peak current available from α partic-
ular generator. The external circuit inductance asso-
that largely the reason large structures is ciated with
are seldom at- aircraft tests on complete high current
tempted.
-
internal •..-4- external load
-
10 R H '0.010 450 Α
5.00
ρ 40uH ._
nF 100 I
(stra)
1.5 MV σ5H "" •" .02#F | ' =
.sive. -------
kA 10
-
-
0 •,where
10
0 (β)
SiO-- 0-.
-3 kA-ι 0 10 us
(χ)
currents. circuit Short 6.59 Fig.
Circuit (α)
(β) 100 = ohms R
(χ) = ohm 1 R
162

Since the external inductance is relatively large,
the discharge switch can frequently be just α heavy
duty sphere mechanically brought into contact with α
metal plate. Generatore optimized for minimum inter-
nal inductance should have more sophisticated switch-
ing devices, such as those discussed in [6.30]. For α
given generator and load, peak current is varied by
adjusting the charging voltage of the surge generator.
Peak current may not vary directly with charging volt-
age because of the effects of arcing test pieces, but the
are small. non-linearities
un- commonly operated are most Surge generators
derdamped in order to obtain maximum current. Un-
derdamped, by definition, means that the output cur-
rent is oscillatory, unlike the unidirectional currents as-
sociaited with natural lightning and the unidirectional
opti- generators from obtainable wavec ea.,ily voltage
'rolt- impulst: magnitude of high for production mized
ages. It also means that the front time of the surge
At- time. front long rather α has inherently current
am- high very of waves current unidirectional taining
plitude with short front times is difficult. It can be
done, but the machines become very large and expen-
For direct effects testing, development of fast
depends pri- damage since essential is not front times
marily on peak current and current duration, not the
front time of current. The front time of the current is
important for evaluating indirect effects, but that is α
different matter.
With an undamped machine the maximum peak
current is
= μ. (6.26) "
es ω
V charging voltage =
generator capacitance = C
circuit inductance. = Λ
The initial rate of change of current, at 0, is Τ =
V dr 3-7dt (6.27)
-
and the frequency of oscillation is
1 C φ =
(6.28) 2IL
Moderate damping does not have much effect on
the above values.