practical generators will be inductive and short circuit
current will have longer front and decay times than
open circuit voltage.
Present standards discuss generator impedance,
or implied generator impedance, in terms of the type
of waveshape to be applied, with certain waveforms
having been chosen in an attempt to address the type
of coupling mechanism involved. As examples, Wave-
form 2 is primarily intended to address magnetic field
coupling while Waveform is 5 intended to address volt-
age rises in the structure of the aircraft.
Linking generator impedance to waveforms is only
an indirect method of addressing the generator imped-
ance needed to evaluate the effects of different cou-
pling mechanisms. As the art of indirect effects testing
evolves, it might be better practice to discuss imped-
ance directly in terms of the type of coupling mecba-
nism being evaluated.
18.4 Injection Transformers
The most common method of performing indirect
effects tests involves the use of injection transform-
ers. Two basic modes of c ration are shown in Fig.
18.14. One (a) involves ii.jection of current into
shorted conductor and the other (b) involves injection
of voltage into an open circuited wire. Most commonly
the shorted conductor is provided by an overall cable
shield grounded at each end.
I:
V
Fig. 18.14 Transformer injection of transients.
(a) Injection of current
(b) Injection of voltage

6
Operation follows the same physical laws govern-
ing any magnetic circuit, but the mode of operation is
different in two respects from that normally involved
in transformers. First, since the purpose is to inject
transients into interconnecting wire bundles, there is
a practical limit to the number of turns that can be
placed on the core of the injection transformer. Most
operation involves passing the bundle through the core
only once, or at most a very few times, unlike conven-
tional transformers which employ windings of many
turns. Second, the transformer is generally energized
with a driving current, unlike conventional transform-
ers which are usually energized by voltage sources.
Each current carrying conductor passing through
the magnetic core sets up a magnetic flux. When in-
jecting current into a shorted conductor the induced
current tends to have the same waveshape as the driv-
ing current and the two components of flux tend to
cancel, leaving a small net magnetic flux in the core.
When injecting voltage into an open circuited conduc-
tor there is no cancelling flux. The amount of voltage
that can be induced is limited by the amount of flux
that can be supported by the core.
18.4.1 Basic Principles of Magnetic Circuits
a
An elementary magnetic circuit is shown in Fig.
18.15. Quantities that define the core include the
length of the magnetic path, and the cross sectional 1,
area, A, of the core. If the core has a large cross sec-
tion, the average length measured around the center
of the core is the quantity of interest. Scientific us-
age generally uses rationalized units with dimensions
in meters. Specifications relating to magnetic material
commonly use unrationalized units with dimensions in
centimeters. Inches are frequently used in engineering
design.
'magnetic path
-- A
N"
Fig. 18.15 Factors governing magnetic circuits.
474