semiconductors: Resistance in series with Where the megahertz and multimegahertz region to cause in-
possible, resistors should be used to limit the surge terference. The energy that is available for damage
may well be concentrated in certain current into semiconductor junctions from input and or interference
response of the by the characteristic con- frequeocy bands amounts of. resistance wires. Even modest output
the aircraft. wiring within aircraft or the wires, and the interfacing the junctions nected between
shown in Fig. 17.6(β), can greatly improve the ability
of semiconductors to re-jist the transient ι'oltages and
Μ
currents. Section 17.5 on component damage mech- [ /Σ
anisms gives examples of the degree of improvement
that may be obtained through the use of series resis-
tors. Resistors should be as large physically as possi- uMOwsuCvu
resistors are better than quarter-witt. ble. Half-watt
_ (β) (α) balanced (α) lines transmission through Transmission φ
and transformers, coupled with input protection for
semiconductors, probably provides the greatest ar.ount
of protection against the transients induced on control
wiring.
-
DC coupling: Where possible, coupling that can pass
dc should be avoided. AC transmission through iso- (χ) (δ)
lation transformers offers onc means of avoiding dc
coupling paths and ,;olation via optical isolators is
another. Optical isolation is particularly appropriate'
for digital circuits, but optically isolated operational ii
amplifiers are available where analog signals must be I \
/
transmitted.
DC coupling paths in power supply circuits can α.
employ DC-DC converters using an intermediate iso- (ε)
lation transformer. Fig. 17.7 Frequency considerations.
Fiber optic transmission: Fiber optic transmission
lines do not intercept lightning induced voltages or cur- Without reference to auy specific frequency re-
rents, but transmitting and receiving equipment ,%τ the gions, however, the energy spectrum of the lightning
generated interference on electrical wiring within an ends could be susceptible to interference or damage.
aircraft will still be α broad spertrum. receptor Α
will 17.7(α), in Fig. Bandwidth shown band, Circuit pass α broad 1Τ.3 with
inherently collect more energy than will α receptor
One of the most import ant considerations in with narrow pass band, shown in Fig. 17.7(β). The
the control of lightning- related interference through narrower the pass band, the better. In this respect
proper circuit design lies in the fundamental observa- analog circuits have an inherent advantage over dig-
tion that α devine with α broad bandwidth can inter- ital circuits, since α narrow-pass band digital circuit
cept mote noise Energy than can α narrow bandwidth is almost α contradiction in terms. If possible, circuits
device. Some of the considerationb that derive from should not have α pass band that includes dc, shown in
this observation are shown in Fig. 17.7. The noise Fig. 17.7(χ), because, when dc is excluded, the circuits
produced by ightning has α broad frequency spectrum. will inherently be able to reject more of the energy as-
Considering for the momeut only the spectrum of the sociated with the flow of current through resistance of
lightning current, the observation is frequently made the structure.
that most of the energy associated with the lightning
current is contained in the low-frequency region, below Typical frequencies- The Milatory studies of types
or 20 kHz. 10 of interference produced in aircraft by the flow light- of .
Before any sense of security is derived from that ning current have shown that the lightning energy ex-
observatim. it should be remembered that equipment cites oscillatory frequencies on aircraft wiring, partic-
iN damaged or caused to malfunction in accordance ularly if the wiring is based on α single-point ground
with the total amount of energy intercepted. In α concept. Those characteristic frequencies have tended
lightning flash there may be plenty of energy left in to be in the range of several hundred kilohe "- to α
439