Spark and arc thresholds: The arc and spark thresh-
old level of a particular aircraft design depends on sev- metal
eral factors which include the following: uicontainso housing
Type of skin material. adsaking fro. I. • [ *prts la oct Saparin
thicness Structure -- en 2, Skin thickness. surfaces i•• n close proximity
3. (a)Rubber Thickness of primer and surface finishes. seal ng
contains products Sparking between of 4. Arc entry vs. conducted current entry. from and screw arcing sleeve fetener
Screw to structure
5. Current amplitude.
FSFastener
elements. Current division among structural 6. Metal washer Structre
coverage. sealant tank fuel of Thoroughness 7. (b)
and sparks oc- levels at which arcs The threshold
sim- by estimated be may design aircraft a new in cur occurs Spearkin
ex- base data a which for designs other ilarity with .su between pfa. Fastener be careful should fuel tank designer the However, •ists. Metal whnassuming that a new design is similar to a pre- suhesrfatrctue
Structure washers
vious one. Any differences in materials, thicknesses,
the im- change will fasteners of or number coatings, contains Structu products Gasket (c)
which the tank, within paths current and pedances fastener from surface arcing of can to alter structure, the threshold levels.
Fig. 7.43 Gasket sealed fasteners. The current density in a particular set of fasten-
but techniques, estimated by mathematical ers can be nut plate rivetless (a) Self sealing
possi- not yet is current of structural determination washer Gask-o-Seal (b)
the and paths current complexity of to the due ble sealing washer 1523 (c) NAS
difficulty of describing them in electrical terms. Tech-
10 Chapters in described are estimates such for niques self-sealing rivetless of levels threshold Arcing
re- the about uncertainty some is there Since 11. and simi- than higher generally are 7.43, Fig. nutplates,
be designs that best is it calculations, liability of these combina- the to due rivets, with fasteners nutplate lar based on similarity or upon analysis supported by test data. arc of blowby prevents seal, which rubber the of tion
data. elimination the and space, vapor fuel the products into
tanks Composite and Plumbing 7.11 arcing of source the generally are which rivets the of
when currents of any appreciable amplitade are con- The use of CFC materials, which are 1000 times
ducted through the nutplate fastener. While arcing more resistive than aluminum, subjects the internal
threshold levels of typical fasteners have been shown components to higher electrical levels which might re-
to be approximately 5 kA, the levels achieved by riv- sult in arcs or sparks that would not occur in alu-
etless nutplate fasteners have been three to four times minum.
construction mate- areas in which CFC The three this level.
fuel with problems associated the increased have rials
Structural interfaces: Sealant coatings must also be tank design are:
applied to structural interfaces, at least in exterior 1. An increase in the possibility of sparks due to high
skins where current densities are highest. In tanks voltage potentirl differences developed within the
fabricated of aluminum, coatings of electrically non- tank.
conductive corrosion finishes on interfacing parts can
result in arcing between the parts due to the poor elec- 2. An increase in the possibility of arcs due to
trical contact. For CFC tanks, arcing can be caused higher magnitude currents in internal plumbing
by the non-conductive resins and adhesives used in and other hardware.
the fabrication of . structures. Arcing may occur due
voltage levels ap- between elements and 3. An increase in the induced to insufficient electrical contact
sparking may occur due to voltage potential differences pearing on internal electrical wiring from reduced
between elements. Recommended fillet sealing dimen- shielding effectiveness of the surrounding struc-
sions are shown in Fig. 7.44. [7.55]. ture.
209