gines. Metal propellers and spinners have been
frequently, of course, but effects have been limited
pitting of blades or burning of small holes in spinners,
as shown in Figs. 4.18 and 4.19 [4.20, 4.21]. Lightning
currents must flow through propeller blade and
shaft bearings, but these are massive enough to
these currents with no harmful effects. Wooden
pellers, especially ones without metal leading
could probably undergo more damage, but these
seldom used on aircraft which fly in weather
tions where lightning strikes occur.
Turbine stalls: Reported lightning effects on
jet engines show that these effects also are limited
temporary interference with engine operation.
outs, compressor stalls, and roll-backs (reduction
turbine rpm) have been reported after lightning
to aircraft with fuselage mounted engines. This
includes military aircraft with internally mounted
gines and fuselage air intakes, or other military
civil airciaft with engines externally mounted on
fuselage,
There have been no attempts to duplicate
flameouts or stall with simulated lightning in a
test, and there has been no other qualitative analysis
of the interference mechanism; however, it is
MISSING
METAL
Fig. 4.18 Lightning strike damage to a propeller.

struck ally believed that these events result from disruption
to of the inlet air by the shock wave associated with the
lightning channel sweeping aft along a fuselage. This
channel may indeed pass close in front of an engine in-
engine take, and if a restrike occurs, the accompanying shock
carry wave is considered sufficient to disrupt engine opera-
pro- tion. The steep temperature gradient may also be im-
edges, portant. These effects have been reported as occurring
are more often on smaller military or business jet aircraft
condi- than on larger transport aircraft. Thus, smaller en-
gines are probably more susceptible to disrupted inlet
air than are their larger counterparts.
turbo-
to Operational aspects: In some cases a complete flame-
Flame- out of the engine results, while in others there is only a
in stall or roll-back. There is no case on record, however,
strikes in which a successful restart or recovery of the engine
type to full power was not made while still in flight. Perhaps
en- because of this, together with the impracticality of a
and laboratory simulation, there has been little research
the into the problem. Nevertheless, operators of aircraft
with engines or inlets close to the fuselage should antic-
engine ipate possible loss of power in the event of a lightning
ground strike and be prepared to take quick corrective action.
There have been only a few reports of lightning ef-
gener- fects on wing mounted turbojet engines, since these are
usually large engines in which the shock wave from a
lightning flash is probably inadequate to noticably dis-
rupt inlet air flow. There are no reports of power loss
of turboprop engines as a result of lightning strikes.
:
Fig. 4.19 Lightning strike damage to a spinner.
83