This is frequently called as shown in Figs. 8.9(β).
the aperture field. Α changing magnetic field passing
α loop, Fig. 8.9(χ), generates an open circuit 2through
voltage 2V0
2 ξ (8.1) dH ( .1 H Α Vo χ 4 7ρ δ = Ξ 10- 10 -3sl 7
or
Fig. 8.8 An oversimplified model.
(8.2) not determined -dq- Maximum voltage is = dt
resistance. end to end total by only
is the 0 where H is the magnetic field strength and
through the loop of area total magnetic flux passing
8.5.2 Magnetically Induced Voltage Α.
The numerical relationships are discussed further
volt- the that is point important most The §9.7.4. in in- 8.9, Fig. mechanism, coupling second The
magnetic of rate the to proportional are ages change of the of volume interior the in fields magnetic volves
dot. H or as to referred sometimes field, H aircraft.
is short circuited, α cur- Induced current: If the loop
in the loop of magnitude rent will be induced
.,= (8.3) V., dt
inductance of the loop. The cur- where Λ is the self
thus tends to have the the short circuited loop reut in
same waveshape as the inducing magnetic field, unlike
of to the rate of change voltage, which responds the
field. magnetic .
coupling: fields will also be magnetic There Diffusion
produced by the diffusion of lightning currents to the
referred inside surfaces of the aircraft skins. These are
Magnetic field lines to loosely as the diffusion fields. The diffusion fields
dependent properties Aperture are also related to the frequency (β)
generated electric field. Because some of the resistively
of the concepts involved in the study of the diffusion
fields are central to an understanding of other effects,
particularly with respect to the response of shielded
Chapter 11) in detilf wires, they will be discussed (in
before fields of other origins are considered.
aircraft: Magnetic effects will be field Magnetic field lines Composite
in composite aircraft than in metal air- Aperture more severe (χ)
fiber reinforced plastics craft. Fiberglass and aramid
provide no magnetic shielding. Carbon fiber compos-
ites provide some shielding, but not nearly as much as
Fig. 8.9 Aperture-type magnetic field coupling, provided by metal aircraft. Not only the magnetic ω;U
rise to peak faster than (α) External field patterns fields be higher, but they will
in metal aircraft, this being natural consequence of α Internal field patterns (β)
efect the of resistance of materials. An CFC the high currents Induced voltages and (χ)
the to- ineased magnetic fields is that much more of
tal lightning current flows on internal metal objtts Aperture The most common and important coupling:
in α comparable metal type of magnetic field is that which pasme from the ex- in α CFC aircraft than flows
* terior through apertures to the interior of the aircraft, aircraft. Another way of phrasing this is that the re-
229