of experimental methods Chapter 13 discusses of success. have a high probability in this way
the and the aircraft between the interaction studying fuel sys- and of airframes Methods of protection
prac- of the discusses some 14 Chapter flash. lighting are de- ignition fuel and damage physical against tems
aircraft of response the of calculating ticsl problems va- Fuel respectively. and 7, 6 Chapters in scribed
15 discusses Chapter fields. electromagnetic to wiring lightning serious the most one of por ignition remains
that some emphasizes and wiring of aircraft shielding in any attention given careful be and should hazards,
use re- practices in common wiring and shielding of the of an Since much certification program. and design
the electromagnetic from protection little provide ally struc- with contact direct in fuel contains airframe
problems. accentuate even may and lightning of fields are 7 and 6 Chapters in topics the elements, tural
re- matters policy the discusses some of 16 Chapter As together. studied be should related and closely
must that tasks effects, indirect of lating to control sources electrical ignition chapters, the these in noted
overall setting for responsible by those undertaken be eas- not are structures aircraft within thresholds and
shielding to Principally these relate practices. design methods, and analyses or quantified by identified ily
transient and to be followed grounding practices to and successful de- part in play an important tests must so
imposed on vendors. specifications to be so-called design level This is true both for sign and verification.
"conventional" metal airframes and for advanced com- These are not subjects that can be controlled by indi-
vidual designers. posite structures.
de- of circuit aspects discusses some 17 Chapter of elec- focus on protection 17 8 through Chapters
protective de- to surge principally those relating sign, As indirect effects. systems against and avionic trical
effects of the damage of analyzing and vices and methods interference aspects of electromagnetic with all
devices. and components on electronic from surge voltages and interference the control of damage control,
lightning indirect effects by analysis Control of critical as aircraft more and more lightning becomes
to indi- far; proof of resistance only be carried so navigation and control functions can evolve. Most of the
about by the conduct is most likely to come between the rect effects place a computer aboard modern aircraft
and on inter- pieces of equipment of tests on individual often without mechan- and the control surfaces, pilot
overview of 18 presents an connected systems. Chapter that the coin- This makes it essential ical backup.
the It is intended to describe verification test methods. be designed so as not control equipment puter and
can be applied for these tests and to by lightning. Con- approaches that to be damaged or unduly upset
certification engineer with what to expect requires coordination be- acquaint the trol of these indirect effects
to testing Practices relating what not to expect. its intercon- and the airframe and tween those who design
discusses some areas and the chapter are still evolving avionic systems and those who design necting wiring,
specifi- and where present work is still needed Part of the where certification process. those who oversee the
that is either technically may require testing selection of tran- cations process requires the overall control
costly. inadequate or excessively of suitable test levels and establishment sient design
order. personnel safety are in A few comments on evolving area and and practices. This is an standards
the generation and application tests involve that test re- Lightning be done in ensuring there is still work to
the far exceeding and currents - very high voltages cost of and are truly adequate practices and quirements
laboratories. in most electrical test levels employed effective,
fatal have proven levels and lethal exceed also far They ef- of indirect subject the introduces 8 Chapter
to evalu- Lightning tests operators. in more to inexperienced covered discusses the subjects fects and briefly
be effects should direct or indirect either or verify ate coy- 9, as mentioned, Chapter in later chapters. detail
in this tech- by personnel experienced performed only common to the subsequent a number of subjects ers
of is beyond the scope This test methodology nology. the external electromag- Chapter 10 covers chapters.
and 12 cover this handbook. and Chapters 11 netic field environment
of the couple to the interior way that these fields the
most analytically four chapters are the aircraft. These
oriented of the book.
S
xii