Project Specific Certification Plan APSCP300 5/28/2015 Title Doc No. Date
Α.3 APSCP300 4.2 Change Classification Analysis:
The planned modifications described in section 4.1 herein have been evaluated per AC 21.101-1 
and found to be non-significant.
The legacy certification basis for Legacy SAAB-EII 300 will be retained. o
The planned modification outlined in section 4.1 herein has been evaluated per AC 21-40Α for 
change classification, ι.ε. major or minor:
The planned changes have been analyzed and found to have no appreciable effect on: o
 Weight, 
 Balance, 
 Structural strength, 
 Reliability, 
 Characteristics affecting airplane airworthiness. 
Changes have been found to have α minor impact on the operational characteristics of the o
flight deck displayed information.
Based on the limited impact of the planned changes, the modification is preliminarily o
classified as Minor and will be approved using the SAAB-EII FAA approved “Minor Airplane
Change Process” upon certification authority agreement.
Legacy airplane level development used conventional development techniques and as such did 
not create ARP4754Α objectives evidence.
FDAL for Avionics functions was not developed. o
Airplane function development evidence was not created (Requirements, Validation and o
Verification).
Creation of ARP4754Α airplane level artifacts for the changes identified in this plan is not 
advantageous or practical and is therefore not planned. Conventional airplane certification
activities will be used. SAAB-EII engineers will review and approve that the activated IMA-100
GPWS avionic functionality meets airplane level functional objectives.
Editor Note: The non-development of ARP4754Α airplane artifacts is situationally based. As the IMA-100
already has deactivated functionality for the AGPWS there is little error mitigation benefit in creating
ARP4754Α development process artifacts as the function and implementation already exists. SAAB-EII
review of the Avionics system level artifacts is sufficient to assure the implemented function will be what is
desired (validation). If the IMA functionality did not exist or if the added TSO equipment was more than
flight crew supplemental information, then α more rigorous satisfaction of ARP4754Α objectives may be
warranted.
Α.3 APSCP300 4.3 Safety Impact of Planned Changes:
AGPWS is an aid to aircrew intended to supplement existing flight instrument data annunciating 
the onset of conditions leading to inadvertent contact with the ground.
As α supplement, the loss of this warning function is classified as “No Effect”. o
Erroneous warning by the AGPWS function is “Minor” due to in slight increase in crew o
workload to validate warning through α crosscheck flight instruments and silence erroneous
warning using added AGPWS inhibit capability.
 105