B.2 2 Roundtable Discussion Notes
Facilitator Introduction:
This is an informal System Development Process discussion with SAE S18 Committee Members
to enhance the SAAB-EII NASA ARP4754A study project with additional industrial experience
inputs through round table discussions. The discussion commentary, with only aircraft, system,
equipment or regulatory identification nomenclature will be attempted. The assembled SAE S18
participants should provide their individual opinions and experiences on lessons learned. The
inputs should fulfill the guidance and process materials on the white spaces without pointing the
problems on recommended practice.
Discussion Area 1: Lessons learned in applying ARP4754A: Are there any difficulties in DAL
assignments or satisfying the objectives? Is there any difficulty to assign the DAL? Are they all
level A or B? Any FDAL lower than B?
AC A: I have not seen many DAL assignments at level B. Most of the assignments fall into
category A or C.
SYS B: I actually have seen many assignments at level B. Functional Decomposition is the key. It
is dependent on how the functionality is assigned to FDALs and allocated to IDALs. The problem is
derived requirements. When you derive requirement at the system level, how to allocate to item
level and assign DALs. A good allocation make the program management have less DAL
assignment arguments.
AC A: This is based on the requirement flow down. I agree that in the SW level or box level
assignment that was passed down to avionic suppliers. However, in the system level we always do
one level better, so it will result in a hazardous assignment increasing to be catastrophic [level A].
EQ A: There is a great sense of impact and argument of ARP4754A since the management knows
it will directly impact the DAL assignments; however, it seems to be getting easier to deal with DAL
assignment argument recently.
I believe Section 5.2 of ARP4754A is written in such a way that it is clearer than the original
ARP4754 for DAL allocation. People are assuming ARP4754A is the same as ARP4754, but we
have enough to go back to them and say: “No your DAL location breakdown happens once” and it
is very clear once you show them the recommended practice. They will go back and say: “Oh! We
missed that”.
AC B: We try to make it as objective as possible. Something that is fundamentally a subject of
process.
EQ A: There are a couple people want to further reduce down, but once we show them Section 5.2
of ARP4754A then the arguments are done.
Sys B: The only issue I have seen is that we have 18 level “As” and I want to do one to level D. We
cannot do that anymore based on the written in the table.
AC A: Let me tell you another experience. When you go back and go to item level, and people say,
I have so much more work to do. We set down and talk about what Validation means and the
activity we just done is called owner engineering course of action. We realized that the validation
was done in the past, and the only thing that was not done is to take credit. I ask them to take
 180