05 If the application of ARP4754Α required and/or resulted in α change to an established
business process, please provide examples of any significant process changes your company
initiated.
 R1 Especially requirement validation and safety assessment processes needed to be updated.
 R2 From the regulatory perspective, the “business change” is our recognition that 4754Α has α
role in the certification process, via our ACs and other vehicles.
 R3 It was not really α fundamental change rather than α determination of the process in more
detail
 R4 The application of the ARP4754Α resulted in α change of the Requirements Based
Engineering process, with correction of the validation and verification process steps and
content. The result was the implementation of α generic Validation and Verification Plan for
the company.
 R5 NA
 R6 NA
 R7 1) Introduction and application of requirements engineering
2) Establishment and application of System Development Plan, Requirements Validation
Plan, Requirements Verification Plan, Process Assurance Plan, Configuration
Management.
 R8 Requirement validation process had to be improved considering ARP. Safety requirements
generation and flow down to SW/AEH had to be improved. In general system requirements
management process and requirement decomposition structure had to be improved.
 R9 No change at business level was identified in the projects so far (considering the
application of ARP4754Α in the strict sense of technical scope of the projects and in the
level of airframe and systems development). There are, however, two points to highlight:
The first: those recommended practices were somewhat spread out to higher-level product
definitions, outside the usual product definition engineering areas (like maintenance,
operational and customer support areas), which have more impacts and visibility in
business process (through data like direct operation cost, direct maintenance cost, etc.) –
this point contributes, to some extent, with the perception described in q.3. Second point:
there is the possibility to move toward on introducing more detailed criteria, metrics and
indicators based on requirements management practices in the project development
framework, refining the decision and risk assessment processes around project phases and
gates.
 R10 The verification and validation processes between requirements owners and implementers
have been reviewed completely under the guidance or ARP4754Α.
 R11 My company established business process is the general requirements for airborne product
development, the rigor is the average level which means it is more rigor than DAL Δ but is
less rigor than DAL Β. So the DAL allocation process and control in different rigor impact
the process significantly.
 135