18 Please identify any area(s) of ARP4754A that you have had the most difficulty in applying
(i.e. Planning, Requirements (management, validation, verification), Configuration Management,
Process Assurance or Safety Assessment)?
 R1 Each process has its own methodology and tool to apply. I think the biggest problem we
had is communication and timely information flow between and within the processes.
 R2 Skip
 R3 FDAL-determination: it is not fully clear, down to what level this should be performed
Validation: It was understood, that for requirements with FDAL A or B two means of
verification should be applied. This is in some cases not feasible or impossible
 R4 Safety Assessment (FDAL assignment); Verification process philosophy
 R5 Config Management
 R6 NA
 R7 1) Challenging if not problematic involvement of Verification entities, i.e. Verification
Engineers, during the development process starting during first validation reviews. The
difficulties encountered partly reside in their theoretically “passive” role during development,
in order for the independence policy to be ensured.
2) Minor mismatch between currently valid items baseline (e.g. document or design build
standard) and the items actually being investigated or used for further activities.
 R8 Requirement validation was the most difficult area since engineers are used to define and
perform verification work rather than validation of the requirements they are developing.
Hence it was difficult to manage and complete validation work.
 R9 Planning, Verification and Process Assurance. Regarding safety assessment, the scope of
the ARP4754A and the relationship with the certification process (final full review versus
early involvement accepting the process).
 R10 Process Assurance and Safety Assessment integration with system requirements.
 R11 I think the Process Assurance is the most difficult part, we know the basic idea, but we do
not know how to guide the QA to do the work effectively. The same for other activities,
though we know what we expected to do, we are lack of experience on how to write good
engineering documents, etc.
 149