11 Describe your experience of ARP4754Α process negotiation with the certification
authorities or OEM, ι.ε. what was considered necessary to show “compliance” to ARP4754Α?
 R1 As military authority side we more focused on planning (especially certification plan and
safety program plan), safety assessment and verification processes outputs.
 R2 From the regulatory perspective, if an applicant is applying the ARP for the 1st time,
regulators expect the company to have the infrastructure (and management support) to be
able to perform the entire set of the “integral process”. Depending on the scope of the
project, I have advised our ACOs to focus oversight on certain aspects of the integral
process. In all cases, the requirement validation aspect is at the forefront.
 R3 Skip
 R4 The negotiation with authorities was in α way that it was presented to the customer and
authorities how the company’σ interpretation and implementation is. Audits, by the
authorities and customer during the developments process, reviewed whether the
presented ARP4754Α process was applied as per initial presentation.
 R5 NA
 R6 NA
 R7 1) General agreement on application and aim of ARP4754Α
2) Key divergence is related to the extent and depth of the process application itself and
also the acceptable evidence to be provided.
3) Negotiations are often affected by different or non-consistent interpretations among
representatives of same organizations or roles (ε.γ. among Suppliers, or among Regulatory
Authorities). Very personal interpretation of ARP4754Α, in this case, is rather α barrier to
come to an agreement than an added value.
 R8 The implementation of safety requirements (FDALs, IDALs) are required to be in compliant
with ARP4754Α.
 R9 In general, submittal of Certification and Development Plans, and Certification Summary /
Compliance Report, along with on-site audits performed by CAs, usually regulated by
agreement in an specific issue paper and / or Certification Action Item, usually covering us
as OEM (system level) and our suppliers (sub-systems / equipment
 R10 It has been well valued by the certification authorities the compliance to ARP4754Α. No
important points of discussion have taken place with the authorities so far.
 R11 Certification support Plan, Safety Assessment data, identification and change control
process and data, Requirements documents, Design documents and verification
documents.
 143