06 Please describe any aspects of ARP4754Α that your company determined were
unnecessary or impractical to apply.
 R1 DAL allocation Table 3. Using option 1 and 2 is not as easy in real environment as it is
described in 4754Α in terms of showing compliance to independence requirements.
 R2 Skip
 R3 FDAL-determination: it is not fully clear, down to what level this should be performed
Validation: It was understood, that for requirements with FDAL Α or Β two means of
verification should be applied. This is in some cases not feasible or impossible
 R4 FDAL and IDAL Assignment Process created discussion and inconsistency within our
development process. As our customers do not identify FDAL’σ in their specifications In
consequence we used the SFHA as done in legacy projects. The further item difficult to
handle was the issue how to determine complex versus noncomplex equipment mainly for
structural or hydro-mechanical equipment. For electronic HW and SW it was clear. This
was α discussion with our customers, as well the authorities as it was not clear from ARP
how to handle non electronic equipment. During audits with customers and authorities it
was not clear at all how to deal with para 5.5.5.4 β. “unintended functions “ of ARP4754Α.
 R5 NA
 R6 NA
 R7 1) Ambiguous explanation (ε.γ. Table 6 Requirements Validation Methods and Data) often
leads to mismatching interpretation and expectation with Regulatory Authorities and TC-
holder. This concerns both the process to be in put in place and the acceptable level and
extent of data/results to be provided.
2) The concept of eliminating “unintended function” during verification and/or integration
activities gained wider popularity and some acceptance with ARP4754Α. It is however too
summarily defined to provide assistance or guideline: some interpretation might be
unintended function = “everything that is not required from the system”, thus any attempt to
define α process gets out of hand.
3) Formal allocation FDAL Α/Β/C sufficient to address failure criticalities affecting
development process. Focus is usually put on FDAL Α/Β investigation and assurance.
 R8 Section 6
 R9 Although some aspects have been controversial issues, both internally and externally in
discussions with cert. authorities and suppliers, we could not find, to the extent of
application we’ve exercised so far, anyone that we could firmly say it’σ unnecessary or
impractical.
 R10 Don'τ know.
 R11 Because we are the LRU supplier, so most of the safety assessment process except FMEA
is unnecessary to us. Typically we follow the requirement from the customer, including DAL
and safety requirement.
 136