Project Specific Certification Plan PSCP200 7/03/2015 Title Doc No. Date
Α.2 PSCP200 4.2 Change Classification Analysis:
The modifications have been evaluated per AC 21.101-1 and found to be non-significant. 
The legacy certification basis for Legacy SAAB-EII 200 will be maintained. o
The planned modification has been evaluated per AC 21-40Α for classification of the change as 
either major or minor:
Changes have been found to have no appreciable effect on: o
 Weight, 
 Balance, 
 Structural strength, 
 Reliability, 
 Characteristics affecting airplane airworthiness. 
Changes have been found to have α minor impact on the operational characteristics of the o
flight deck maintenance displayed information.
Therefore, the changes planned in this plan are anticipated classified as Minor and will be o
approved using the SAAB-EII FAA approved “Minor Airplane Change Process”.
Legacy airplane level development used conventional development techniques and as such did 
not create ARP4754Α objectives evidence.
FDAL for Avionics functions were not developed. o
Airplane function development evidence was not created (Requirements, Validation and o
Verification).
Creation of ARP4754Α airplane level artifacts for the changes identified in this plan is not 
advantageous or practical and is therefore not planned. Conventional airplane certification
activities will be used.
Α.2 PSCP200 4.3 Safety Impact of Planned Changes:
Review of legacy IMA functional failure conditions indicates that: 
FMS Loss or Erroneous operation classified as Hazardous o
Modifications planned for the FMS function do not affect the functional hazard failure o
condition description or severity
Modifications planned for the FMS function do not affect any other IMA or external o
functionality.
Added IMA function “ABC” adds software function to provide new aircraft configuration advisories 
to enhance flight crew situational awareness
New function “ABC” adds two new failure conditions. o
Preliminary FHA of function “ABC” indicates α hazardous (II) classification for erroneous o
operation and major (III) classification for loss of function.
Displays functionality is partitioned between caution/warn display and maintenance. o
The System FHA will be revised to add function “ABC” failure conditions and classification. 
FDAL for the modification activities will be assigned directly based on the most sever aircraft-level 
failure condition supported by the modified and new functionality.
Α.2 PSCP200 4.4 Modification Implementation Strategy:
All modifications planned under this change effort are contained to the IMA Avionics platform and 
impact only IMA avionic software
See Company “Α” Avionics System Development Plan for details of planned modification. 
 80