only need to explain your concepts. There can be issues while dealing with purely mechanical
flight control system or ice protection system specialist that are not familiar with DAL assignments.
AC A: Question on satisfying objectives while we wrote the ARP 4754A material. The regulator
looked at appendix A and told me that I gave him a prescriptive checklist, which he can go around
to ask for evidences on the checklists. There was a regulator challenge stuff on ARP4761 CMA
stuff and told me that things are missing. I explained to them that this is a guideline, but the
regulator told me that we need to follow ARP 4761 appendix.
AC B: Tell him to go back and read page one. There are also many places in the documents telling
you that is not true. They chose to interpret that way then they are blinding themselves how the
ARP works.
AC A: The result was that it went into debate and I had to go back and propose a deviation for
compliance. I have to re-adjust to show the deviation is still compliant to ARP 4761.
AC B: You are then non-compliant to a non-compliance document.
Facilitator: In DO we use compliant, but we should use satisfying the objectives in ARP because it is only
a guideline and there is no rule there.
AC B: Shall and must do not exist in the ARP guideline.
It is possible that the regulatory authority to use the appendix as a prescriptive checklist and
enforce the company to be compliant while the goal is supposed to be only on satisfying the
objectives. The incorrect usage on the recommended practice may result of providing additional
deviation in order to show the compliance.
EQ B: I had an experience that we were forced to do a DAL A in Software. The FDAL becomes a
level A while we do not want to mess with it, so we will just do them all. This is a gray area while
we are mandated from the bottom.
Facilitator: One thing that we learned by comparing ARP and DO is that if the DO is assigned as level A
then it also migrated to systems to the same level. Even though ARP4754A level is not A, but be get stuck
with it by the lower level bottom up. It turns out that it’s OK while the objectives for A and B in ARP4754A
are the same.
AC A: While dealing with the engine supplier, FADEC were B on two of them. The suppler had
identical FADEC channel with no independence and they thought they can have B on them per
using the table in ARP4754A.
In order to show compliance to DO and satisfy the objectives of ARP, the recommended practice
of FDAL may end up required even if it is not. There are cases the lower level A forces ARP to
comply while most likely there is a bottom up impact.
 182