5 ARP4754Α Application Guidance, Policy or Practice Issues
Summary
The study sought also to identify issues regarding current guidance, policy and practice of
ARP4754Α development and assurance of computer-based aircraft systems. The case study
application insights and the author’σ previous lessons learned experiences in applying
ARP4754Α were used to identify and summarize these issues.
Issues with the current guidance, policies and practices were also solicited from Industry
through α questionnaire and discussion roundtable as detailed in Appendix Β. The following
issues summarize the major concerns regarding the on-going invocation of ARP4754Α.
ARP4754Α Application Criteria
The primary issue identified by the industry responses was the certification authorities’
inconsistent understanding and application of ARP4754Α as part of the overall certification
process, both within α single authority as well as between the various regulatory authorities
worldwide. The certification authorities represented α divergence of opinion across projects on
the depth and extent of ARP development process application as well as the acceptable
evidence for showing objective satisfaction.
Industry participants were inconsistent on what would help mitigate these inconsistencies. Some
respondents wanted α detailed checklist applied, similar to the DO-178 Job Aid, to create α level
playing field. Other wanted acceptance of their existing processes as they are shown to satisfy
the ARP objectives.
The level of certification authority involvement in the ARP development process, the
inconsistency and alignment of ARP application and the ARP interpretation that “recommended”
really means “required” were all highlighted as project obstacles. Finally, the late resolution of
acceptable ARP4754Α “compliance” evidence impacted timely project development.
FDAL/IDAL Assignment
All respondents of the questionnaire indicated α difficulty in applying the assurance level
assignment process. Α review of the examples provided in the questionnaire responses
indicates that there remain problems differentiating between failure and error mitigation
techniques. Confusion and misunderstandings were encountered during assignment
interpretation. (It should be noted that only 25% of the respondents indicated that they had
received training on the ARP). There were α number of examples of issues associated with
assigning assurance level when the functional failure set included non-complex Items.
No special tools were used to aid in the assurance assignment level process. Error trees, fault
trees and common mode analysis were used by some to visualize the development process
architecture.
Α number of respondents would like to see α “how to”, step by step detailed explanation for
FDAL and IDAL assignment.
ARP Application General
 6