25 Please describe any ARP4754Α requirement verification issues encountered.
 R1 Verification process was more structure than validation process. Because seeing the
results/outputs were the concern of each party therefore more attention was paid for this
process. But documenting of what was done as guided by 4754Α was an issue.
 R2 Skip
 R3 Implementation during development process needed to be established, ε. γ. with respect to
determination of disciplines to participate and resources planning Verification rigor
sometimes unclear.
 R4 Traceability and coverage becomes α high effort, if the verification engineering was not
deeply involved within the validation process, causing inconsistencies in the verification
either verification of requirements was not done or duplicated at different levels.
 R5 Not covered yet
 R6 NA
 R7 1) First issue roots back to requirement capture and validation process: misinterpretation
might raise on what needs to be verified, or possibly how it should be verified.
2) For Verification Method “similarity”, it is unclear how much of the “similar” equipment or
system need to be shown. The main issue is due to disclosure obligation with α third party
airplane manufacturer.
3) Combination of numbers of Verification Method to be applied (ε.γ. 2), FDAL
classification (ε.γ. Α) and mandatory method (ε.γ. test) as per System Verification Plan
might not be feasible. Negotiation with Regulatory Authorities and Airplane Manufacturer is
not avoidable.
 R8 We are confused with the need to prepare α separate verification plan, the need for the
plan and the content of this plan is not clear in ARP.
 R9 Some minor issues were related to credits from verification performed at different levels of
systems and items development; to the level of formalization of verification environment in
the verification procedures and results; and to the definition of criteria for verification
methods others than test. Some other issues were related to independence for verification
activities with regarding design activities and to the level of details in description of test
objectives and test cases, when considering the requirements set covered.
 R10 None
 R11 According to ARP475Α, the requirement verification not only refers test after the prototype,
to verify the design data against the requirement is also part of the requirement verification.
But at moment we do not have good way for this except review.
 156