24 Please describe any ARP4754Α requirement validation issues encountered.
 R1 The issue was that companies didn’τ set α systematic correctness and completeness check
process. Also only review process as α validation method was preferred by companies.
Test and analysis methods were found as α
 R2 Skip
 R3 Implementation during development process needed to be established, ε. γ. with respect to
determination of disciplines to participate and resources planning
 R4 Organization of the validation process, having the required people available for the
validation process. Re-visit of already validated requirements with different results. Non
availability of Verification engineering for validation, causing additional effort during
verification back in the validation process. In complete requirements baseline from parent
documentation means spread of requirements over α set of documents. We made the
decision in the company to apply validation process as well for complex and non complex
systems and equipment’σ, as we recognized by doing so having α robust development
process and less discussions with customers/authorities.
 R5 Not covered yet
 R6 NA
 R7 1) Rationale of requirement often understood as self-explaining or “based on experience” is
also often hard to formulate.
2) Different linguistic backgrounds within one project, whether within one organization or
outside, sometimes build α barrier for clear formulation and precise wording choice. Even
the most skilled specialist might encounter this problem if not expressing himself in his
native language or language of education.
 R8 The responsibility of requirement validation work is not clearly described in ARP.
 R9 Additionally to comment provided in question 22 above, recently we realized that sections
5.4.3 and 5.4.4 (Correctness and Completeness Checks) seem to provide much more
details than the current practices actually demands to address. Additionally, one of the
most controversial issue is regarding the prevention of unintended function through
validation methods and activities – usually, for textual requirements, this issue is explicitly
addressed in the verification process only.
 R10 Requirement owners don’τ always understand the need to validate their requirements
during the process. It is important to involve everyone in the process.
 R11 One of the objective of the requirement validation is its integrity, but it is difficult to prove it.
 155