22 Please describe any ARP4754Α requirements capture/ management issues encountered.
 R1 4754 tells us what kind of requirement can be captured and what methods can be used to
validate them. But I think this phase mostly depend on the knowledge of each party
(customer, manufacturer, etc) at the time of requirement review. We had to face incomplete
and ambiguous requirements required by customers.
 R2 Skip
 R3 Skip
 R4 Not configured customer documentation ε.γ. specification plus α set of Change Requests,
not formally validated on parent level. Missing requirements links, missing equipment
allocation, incorrect means of validation/verification, duplication of verification tasks ε.γ. at
equipment and system level the verification of the same functionality.
 R5 Nacelle, TRU requirements capture and flowdown by engine manufacturer
 R6 NA
 R7 1) Linguistic difficulties and conflicts aside, requirements capture is rarely satisfying to an
organization or an engineer during the course of the development. Different insights and
realizings will always come down the way, sometimes leading most drastic action such as
complete rework. This might be related to the general approach, the layout of information
capture, the acceptability of α wording across diverse disciplines.
2) Tool available for requirements capture/management not always satisfying every
requirement and process within one organization or outside the organization. Misuse or
mishandling of the tool and the ARP4754Α process to comply with one aspect, ε.γ.
document layout containing information deemed necessary to assess certifiability need to
be produced although multiple relations on α single level are not to be managed.
 R8 It was difficult to capture and manage system requirements in α consistent manner without
α requirement standard employed like in DO178 and DO254 but ARP doesn’τ call out for
such type of standardization. Hence different type of requirements, in different granularities
and different composition makes harder to evaluate them.
 R9 The most relevant issue is related to engineers capturing as “requirements” information that
may not represent indeed α “requirement” (like α design standard or assumptions) and
having difficulties in validating it. This situation sometimes leaded to α requirements
database bigger than the product actually needs.
 R10 Suppliers don’τ all work following the same processes and requirements capture and
management worked well with some and not so well with others.
 R11 We have DOORS for requirement management, but it is not clear for us how to connected
the requirement management with the development process.
 153