Avionic System Development Plan SDP100 4/24/2015 Title Doc No. Date
Α.1 SDP100 1 Introduction:
Plan describes the system development process for Avionics functions to be installed on the 
SAAB-EII 100 airplane.
Plan addresses engineering life cycle including function design, requirements generation, analysis, 
requirements validation, function verification for re-used functionality and modified functionality.
Plan includes the identification and assignment of the appropriate Item Development Assurance 
Level (IDAL) rigor to be performed for airborne electronic hardware and software development.
Plan fulfills the intent of ARP4754Α objectives planning for: 
Development (section 4), o
Requirements Management (section 5.3), o
Validation (section 5.4), o
Verification (section 5.5). o
Α.1 SDP100 2 Avionics System Description:
The Company “Α” Avionics Flight Deck integrates multiple avionic functions into α single Integrated
Modular Avionic (IMA) system implementation:
The Integrated Modular Avionics (IMA – ATA 42) includes the following functions: 
IMA implementation certificated on “OTHER” aircraft o
Baseline IMA includes the following system functions: o
 Autopilot/autoflight (ATA 22), 
 Communications (ATA23), 
 Displays (ATA31), 
 Navigation/Flight Management (ATA34), and 
 Maintenance (ATA 45). 
Α.1 SDP100 3 Avionics System Development Overview:
The avionics system development process will ensure support of the certification process outlined 
in the SAAB-EII 100 Avionics Certification Plan (CP100).
The avionics system development process is structured to ensure satisfaction of ARP4754Α 
objectives commensurate with the assigned development assurance level (FDAL).
This plan responds to the following ARP4754Α planning objectives: 
Requirements Management, o
Requirements Validation, o
Requirement Verification, o
Configuration Management, o
Process Assurance. o
The avionics system development process is based on re-using an integrated avionic 
implementation certificated on another airplane.
The SAAB-EII 100 avionics system development process will use α combination of 
similarity/service experience to previous program ARP4754Α objective data and the generation of
new objective evidence for the unique airplane functionality to satisfy the SAAB-EII 100 ARP4754Α
development life cycle.
Figure 8 presents α high level summary of the Avionics System development activities. 
 60