42 Looking back, how did your understanding of Functional/Item DAL assignment process
evolve throughout the project.
 R1 We had to deal with CAT function with DAL Α software. Same software run on both
computers. During the process the discussion was weather two independent level Β
software developed by different teams is better or not in terms of error. Some research say
two different SW generates more errors. Benefit of using of Option 2 was another question.
 R2 As α regulator, an observation is that because the company’σ process specialists don’τ do
safety assessment, they often are not aware of how Table 3 is used.
 R3 It was not fully clear, down to what level FDAL-determination should be performed: Down to
each single requirement or only for top-level functions and thus one FDAL for the whole
specification. In the process the latter was finally applied On IDAL determination there were
discussions about combination of failures of mechanical items and electronic items leading
to cat. Failures: Can credit be taken of the mechanical item being IDAL Α, thus reducing
the IDAL of the electronic item to C? The decision was, not to take credit of the mechanical
item being IDAL Α, however there is no clear substantiation for it.
 R4 We faced lots of discussion how to evaluate FDAL if not assigned form the parent
documentation, which was the case in our previous and actual running programs.
Discussions lead to the point that in case of α system is identified with one Top Level
Failure conditions “Catastrophic” the entire system is dealt as FDAL on System level. At
equipment level we differentiated the architecture then to cover the FDAL Α with dedicated
IDAL’σ for the electronic control units to show compliance.
 R5 NA
 R6 No comment
 R7 Skip
 R8 It is in close relationship with the customer requirements (in Α/C level), system functions,
their allocations to subsystems and system architecture. We observed that since there are
lots of factors driving DAL assignment process it is difficult to manage the changes.
Because you have to catch up with or provide output beforehand the item level
development processes. There are always schedule pressure, since all the activities
performed concurrently, DAL assignment process or safety assessment process needs to
be performed as early as possible but in practice it is difficult to complete these when you
don’τ have enough data for substantiation of results to derive safety requirements.
 R9 For the common developer, it has been very difficult concept to be understood and applied.
For most the users IDAL is α more straightforward concept but the FDAL itself and the
mixing with IDAL in α FFS approach is α very confusing and complex to operationalize
method. Even for α specialist it still causes misunderstanding and misalignment all across
the company.
 R10 It has improved, allowing to reduce the FDAL and IDAL in some particular cases.
 R11 Skip
 171