04 If your company has (or had) α system development process equivalent to ARP4754Α,
please describe how the equivalency was determined, validated and accepted?
 R1 Military applicants have used system engineering processes defined in ISO/IEC standards.
They also started to organize their processes according to 4754Α. Especially safety related
processes that are not well defined in system engineering standards.
 R2 Skip
 R3 Skip
 R4 The development process in our company was reworked in 2010 with respect to the
AIRPLANE PROGRAM NAME development guidelines. So with the release of ARP4754Α,
an assessment was done in order to identify if there are discrepancies existing to be
corrected, adjusted. Further on we stepped into new development programs where our
customers had different approaches to show compliance to the ARP4754Α. One customer
required for example α line to line compliance matrix to the ARP4754Α. The comparison
ARP4754Α versus our development process was made and adjustments applied to the
process where necessary. One beneficial task prior to the assessment was the ARP4754Α
training at our company done by Eric Peterson to reach α common understanding of the
ARP.
 R5 Closest that comes to mind was PROGRAM NAME. No equivalency established
 R6 As far as I know there isn’τ one.
 R7 Skip
 R8 We are trying to update our system development process to make it fully compliant with
ARP 4754Α. In order to determine the gaps between ARP process and our existing
processes we conducted gap analyses performed by an independent consultant.
 R9 Company has adapted its engineering processes across projects. For the projects under
development this question is not applicable (all systems/functions are covered by
ARP4754Α based processes). The last project’ TC adopted ARP4754 (legacy version)
based processes, with some features from version Α; and for the first two projects’ TC,
there were α scope analysis based on complexity, level of integration and criticality of
systems/functions to identify which ones would be covered by each process (company
equivalent and ARP4754 based).
 R10 Don’τ know
 R11 We have established α development process followed ARP4754Α at the LRU level, we
have internal review and approval procedure to check against the ARP4754, but there is no
way to determine the equivalency by the third party at the moment in Chinese case.
 134