34 Please describe any issues associated with definition or assignment of “safety related
requirements”.
 R1 Safety related requirements are defined in different sections of 4754Α. We required from
applicant to mark safety related requirements (related to Flight Operation, Maintenance
Tasks, function, independence, etc.) with kind of tag on requirement management tool to
take everyone attention on critical requirements. But some management issues raised to
assign and trace the requirements.
 R2 Skip
 R3 Α detailed definition had to be established, when α requirement is safety related. In the
process it must be ensured, that this determination can only be made by α safety specialist
 R4 None
 R5 Safety requirements developed by Safety. Safety related may come from α Sub-System
SSDD.
 R6 No comment
 R7 Skip
 R8 We had difficulty when to flow down FDAL requirements (ι.ε. right after FHA completion or
in PSSA stage) but we de [Ed note: response was incomplete.]
 R9 The link/traceability between safety analysis and artifacts generated for safety (following
the methodologies already in place for years in the industry such as ARP4761) and the
development requirements and artifacts is α challenge, especially during the early design
phases and across the suppliers chain. Also, as the number of requirements increase, the
safety requirements, or the safety driven requirements are sometimes "lost" in the middle
of the numerous requirements decreasing its priority over other requirements, especially
when α function , which is considered critical (FDAL Α, Β), could not be decoupled from
other non-critical functionalities or goals. An example is an aircraft performance function
which has critical goals (such as maintain positive climb gradient) but also not safety driven
goals (market driven) such as time to climb. All the requirements related to this function
might be FDAL Α and therefore threated in similar way.
 R10 PSSA tracing to system requirements has been difficult.
 R11 Skip
 165