Avionic System Development Plan SDP100 4/24/2015 Title Doc No. Date
Α.1 SDP100 5.3 Requirements Verification:
Verification of requirements and specific assumptions is the process of ensuring that the 
completed system has successfully implemented the requirements.
Verification is α structured process for ensuring implementation complies with the set of captured 
requirements.
Verification activities will be tracked using α matrix containing the requirements and their 
verification status.
Verification activities accomplished and the completed verification matrix will be included in the 
Avionics System Validation and Verification Summary Report.
Deviations from the verification process will be captured and reported in the Summary Report. 
Α.1 SDP100 5.3.1 Requirements Verification Methods & Process:
Requirements will be verified using structured process accomplishing objectives of ARP4754Α. 
Requirements will be verified using combination of methods: 
Methods of verification include: 
Test, o
Analysis (Modeling), o
Service Experience or, o
Inspection (engineering review). o
It is anticipated that the bulk of the avionic systems requirements will be verified through test. 
Artifacts will be generated as demonstration of the verification process for all requirements. 
Verification artifacts will be managed appropriate for the function development assurance level. 
Requirements supporting functions with FDAL Α will be verified with independence. 
Requirements supporting functions with FDAL Β & C will be verified with independence as α 
process goal but may be verified by requirement originators as necessary.
For simplicity of process, verification test procedures supporting FDALs Α thru C will be managed 
using change management control level 1.
Requirements supporting FDALS Α thru C will be summarized in α verification matrix. 
This matrix tracks the verification status of each requirement and captures the verification 
method(σ) used to establish the verification result and artifact references capturing the verification
evidence.
An example verification matrix shown in Table 19. 
 70