Avionic System Development Plan ASDP300 5/28/2015 Title Doc No. Date
Α.3 ASDP300 6 Avionic System Configuration & Change Management:
Configuration management of development artifacts are the responsibility of the Company “Α” 
originating group.
The central Company “Α” CM organization provides tools, services and process to assist in this 
task.
Artifacts created during the development and used as part of the certification process will be 
managed per the detailed process described in the “Company Α Configuration Management Plan”
appropriate to the level of rigor established for the artifact.
Artifacts to be managed include: 
Avionic System Development Plan (this document), o
Avionic system requirements documentation, o
Avionic system safety assessments, o
Avionic system validation evidence, o
Avionic system verification procedures, o
Avionic system verification evidence, o
Avionic system validation & verification accomplishment summary. o
Current ARP4754 CM objective satisfaction will be compared to ARP4754Α CM objectives for 
areas of difference identification.
Any CM process differences will be noted for discussion and negotiated evolution. 
Requirements, safety assessment and verification procedure artifacts will be managed using detail 
change management process (Change control level 1 aka System CM category 1)
All other program artifacts will be managed using version control change management process 
(change control level 2 aka System CM Category 2).
Α.3 ASDP300 7 Avionic System Process Assurance:
Process assurance is integral to the development activities to ensure that the system development 
and supporting processes are appropriate, maintained, and followed.
Process assurance is performed by the Company “Α” Quality Assurance (QA) organization. 
Process assurance is evaluated against: 
ARP4754Α objectives based on development assurance rigor (FDAL), o
DO-178 objectives based on development assurance rigor (IDAL). See PSAC for specific o
details.
DO-254 objectives based on development assurance rigor (IDAL). See PHAC for specific o
details.
 121