52 Please discuss (in general terms) any current or future ARP4754Α applications?
 R1 4754Α is also α good guideline for military projects when it is tailored according to the
scope of the project. There is no appropriate guidance material in military
regulations/standards that integrates system development and safety processes together
and no clear guideline to determine DALs.
 R2 As regulators, we expect aircraft companies and systems suppliers will establish and
maintain infrastructures apply the ARP and we anticipate that over time their activities will
be streamlined to be more efficient than the first application. As the ACOs gain
understanding and confidence in their applicants’ processes, we anticipate reduced
involvement, and oversight will also be streamlined as α function of the
scope/complexity/novelty of the product
 R3 Skip
 R4 Long Range Wide Body Commercial Aircraft Landing Gear (Part 25); Helicopter Landing
Gear System (Part 29)
 R5 Control systems for turbine engine
 R6 None
 R7
 R8 Avionic system (primary flight displays, navigation sensors, internal communication
systems) development for utility helicopter program. Avionic system(mission computers,
display systems, navigation and communication equipment), and weapon systems
(integration of various weapons to platform) development for fighter jet program. Equipment
(mission computers, displays, communication and navigation equipment) development for α
trainer aircraft program. Avionic system development for civil transport category airplane.
 R9 See q. 1 – in one of the first program, certification authority requested ARP4754Α as one of
the means of compliance with 25.1309 through an issue paper; in the second program,
they understood that an issue paper is not needed – the compliance with 25.1309 would
require to follow ARP4754Α, based on the AC 20-174.
 R10 Currently applying it in α Part 23 airplane.
 R11 Compliance mean for System, LRU, SRU Guidance for the companies to improve their
development process.
 179