Avionic System Development Plan SDP100 4/24/2015 Title Doc No. Date
Α.1 SDP100 5 Avionic System Requirements Development, Validation &
Verification:
Requirements development, validation and avionic system requirement verification plans are 
discussed in this section.
Figure 9 presents the high level avionics system development process flow. 
Any changes in FDAL or IDAL assignments between the established baseline artifact level of rigor 
and the SAAB-EII 100 program assigned level will be evaluated on α case-by-case basis for α
negotiated development approach.
Note- FDAL assignments Α-Β-C have minimal differences with respect to ARP4754Α o
process objectives.
Α.1 SDP100 5.1 Requirements Development & Management:
The Avionic System “Ξ.Y” requirements set will form the baseline for the SAAB-EII 100 Avionic 
System.
The baseline requirements were developed to the level of rigor identified in Column 3 of Table 16 
and include the following information:
Unique requirement identifier, o
Requirement text, o
Rationale (reason for having the requirement if requirement was derived), o
Parent trace linkage capability, o
Safety related attribute. o
As part of the SAAB-EII 100 development process, the baseline Company “Α” avionic system 
requirement set will be evolved to include traceability information between the SAAB-EII 100
requirement specifications and the baseline avionic requirement set. See Figure 10 for artifact
evolution plan.
Requirements that need to be modified to satisfy SAAB-EII OEM requirements will be managed 
through the configuration management process to ensure traceability to the baseline.
Changed requirements will be revalidated using the requirement validation process. 
New requirements will be introduced to the baseline requirement set using the CM process and 
validated using the validation process.
All SAAB-EII 100 baseline requirement set validation attributes will be set initially to invalid status. 
An illustration of the requirement levels and tracing between these levels is shown in Figure 11. 

 64