43 What, if any, concerns do you have with the current ARP4754Α industry guidelines for
development and assurance?
 R1 4754Α set α systematic approach to development. As α result of this, it increases
documentation effort by applicants and assessment/acceptance effort by Authority.
Concerns were mostly related to cost and schedule.
 R2 The line between system engineering and safety engineering is vague, consequently the
scope of application widely varies between aircraft manufacturers.
 R3 Skip
 R4 The ARP provides recommended practice with recommendations, but it seems that our
customers and respectively the authorities interpreted recommendation as α “shall”
required and are not open to accept α different approach.
 R5 More work, not enough experience
 R6 No comment
 R7 Skip
 R8 Transition criteria between the activities within the development processes and integral
processes can be defined with an example.
 R9 Besides the ones provided in questions 15/16, 19, 24, 27 and 29, we have the following:
#1. Section 1 (SCOPE) is unclear in the following points: in the upper bound of product
specification, it explicitly excludes from these guidelines some activities and technologies,
like aircraft structural development. Nevertheless other aircraft level technologies, like the
ones related to aeronautics, ε.γ. flight mechanics, performance, aeroelasticity, etc. remain
undefined, once they are neither explicitly excluded nor can be fit the area of
“…development of aircraft systems…” stated in the first paragraph of that section. In the
lower bound of product specification, once ARP4754Α define it boundary where software
and hardware start, it is not clear if α single “equipment” is part of its scope. Around this
issue, it’σ not clear as well how ARP4754Α and DO-297 guidelines work together for the
case of an “Integrated Modular Architecture” (IMA).
#2. There is α perception that the compliance plans (both internal and from the suppliers)
are somewhat inefficient to promote product improvement by themselves. From one hand,
it seems that ARP4754Α has too open guidelines in such α way that any plan can be
compliant with that; on the other hand, there may be too much rigor depending on who
define, apply and oversight the plans and artifacts, to clearly identify the improvements
desired (similar to situation described in q. 15). We have tried to mitigate that situation, both
internally and at suppliers (see q. 21) through planned process reviews, similar to the
software “SOIs” reviews. We are working on an internal policy to perform those process
reviews on α regular basis in all programs and contracts, covering not only process aspects
but also the related technology aspects (ε.γ., requirements validation and rational
fundamentals and design choices) by involving people with good knowledge and
experience in the technologies reviewed.
 R10 Too long and complicated in some areas.
 R11 1.The interface with DO178, DO254, DO297, etc, needs to be more clearly defined. 2.
Some terms in definitions and the main body are not consistent, for example, the some
context, the term “item” refers to LRU, in other context, “item” refers to single piece of SW
or HW.
 172