Β.2 – Study Questionnaire
NASA ARP4754Α Study Questionnaire
Background
This questionnaire is being circulated in the commercial aviation industry to gather and expand the
experiences, issues and lessons learned on the application of ARP4754Α. Questionnaire responses will be
consolidated and analyzed to provide additional inputs to the SAE ARP4754Α industry document revision
process and published as part of NASA Contract NNL13AA06Β, Task NNL14AB74Τ, “Application of SAE
ARP-4754Α to the Development of Complex and Safety-Critical System”.
Please use this opportunity to relate your experiences on the application of ARP4754Α system development
objectives on α specific project or within your organization. Your experienced based comments provide α
valuable perspective on the clarity and application of current industry development assurance objectives.
Please be as descriptive in your responses as time allows. It is anticipated that you may require 30-45
minutes to complete this questionnaire.
Raw response data will only be seen by EII researchers. All questionnaire responses will be held in
confidence and all sources de-identified prior to response consolidation and final report development
activities.
General:
Describe the extent and circumstances of your ARP4754Α application (ε.γ. TC, ATC, STC project(σ), other).
1
Click here to enter text.
Describe any prior experience with the legacy ARP4754 systems development document that your organization
may have had. 2
Click here to enter text.
Based on your current work environment, how does your management interpret the scope and purpose of
ARP4754Α? 3
Click here to enter text.
If your company has (or had) α system development process equivalent to ARP4754Α, please describe how the
equivalency was determined, validated and accepted? 4
Click here to enter text.
If the application of ARP4754Α required and/or resulted in α change to an established business process, please
provide examples of any significant process changes your company initiated. 5
Click here to enter text.
Please describe any aspects of ARP4754Α that your company determined were unnecessary or impractical to
apply. 6
Click here to enter text.
 126