09α In your opinion, how does the application of ARP4754Α result in better products and
systems?
 R1 4754Α gives us α good understanding of what to do. I think companies should develop their
own procedures according to their scope of work and criticality of the systems. Finding the
best way that fits to company is important to get the benefit of applying 4754Α.
 R2 From the regulatory perspective, the learning curve for industry and ACO is still fairly steep
at the present time. But for those who have gone through it once, the benefit is
better/smoother certification in the next program.
 R3 The clear relationship between safety, requirements capture process and (system) design
will help to avoid errors and late detection of non-compliance to safety requirements
 R4 Identification of gaps in the forward path of the development with validation “are we building
the right thing” and with verification “did we build the right thing”.
 R5 Better requirements definition and management
 R6 Higher levels of configuration management and control practices. Also, the alignment with
DO-178Β/C makes it easier to work with the software group.
 R7 1) Methods to ensure correctness, completeness and traceability provide more confidence
at every single step of development process and problem management, more visibility is
given for documentation during development and for/post-certification.
2) ARP4754Α is not depending on the software tool adapted for its application.
 R8 I think before ARP, it is not clear how to relate our system safety engineering and other
system development activities with the SW and AEH level. ARP provides α means of filling
the gap between civil certification requirements and implementation in SW and AEH
through the use of DAL assignment process, requirement validation and verification
process. Since DO-178 or DO-254 for SW and AEH are not sufficient to produce α safe
product without α systematic approach followed in system level, ARP serves as α “systems
aspect of certification” standard to follow for developing better airborne products and
systems.
 R9 Anticipating issues as early as possible in the development and Entry Into Service (EIS),
helping risk identification / mitigation and providing α systematic mean (requirements-
oriented development) to analyze, assessing and solving issues from the deployment of
business / high level requirements into implementation, during the development, framework
for communication with suppliers (ε.γ. requirements and interface control data), EIS and
operation. Additionally, it helps in the product change impact analysis; without the
traceability framework its application provides, impact analysis requires much time (having
to analyze the entire database and test data) and that is subject to much more errors.
 R10 All the engineers participating in the system development have α better idea of the whole
process. The life cycle of requirements from initial state to implementation and testing is
better controlled, reducing the risk of missing steps during the development that would
result in costly redesigns at α later stage in the program.
 R11 Less remained errors, better controlled data for modification and duplication, it is also good
for reuse.
 140