4 ARP4754Α Application Guidelines Summary
Upon completion of the case studies outlined in section 3, development and assurance
guidelines on the application of ARP-4754Α based on lessons learned and insight gained in the
course of performing the case studies were developed. These ARP4754Α application
guidelines provide insight into the rationale for development assurance level (DAL) assignments
with system architecture consideration as well as consider the system complexity and safety
criticality.
Α review of the notes and activities associated with the case study developments identified α
few general guidelines. Additional material derived from α questionnaire and roundtable
discussions were collected from industry to enhance the lessons learned material. This
additional solicited experience information is summarized in Appendix Β.
The study results indicate that ARP4754Α provides α systematic path for aircraft function design
and development. It provides for early removal of errors resulting in less iteration to get α
function design correct. The ARP establishes compatibility with the other industry standards
and processes (DO-178, DO-254 and DO-297). Users advocate tailoring the activities outline in
the ARP according to their individual scope of work and criticality of function being developed.
FDAL/IDAL Assignment Guidelines
For almost all development project scenarios, the functional development assurance level
(FDAL) can and will be assigned using the functional hazard assessment classification with the
assurance level assigned per ARP4754Α Table 2 or ARP4754Α Table 3 using the single
member functional failure set (FFS) column. Most project developments, especially at the
aircraft function level, provide minimum opportunity to use the functional independence attribute.
Similarly, the Item development assurance level (IDAL) will be assigned commensurate with the
FDAL (and therefore the hazard) supported or implemented by the Item.
No special tools need to be used to assign the FDAL and IDAL. Α common mode analysis
(CMA) evaluates for satisfaction of the independence characteristics.
Engineering Judgment Guidelines
In general, the key engineering use areas in ARP4754Α include planning, requirements capture
and requirements validation. The requirement management objectives rely the most on
engineering judgment. The generation of acceptable, clear, concise requirement text relies on
experience and engineering judgment. Validation of requirements is primarily accomplished
through the application of knowledgeable experience.
Aircraft Level: Optimum planning to support the ARP4754Α objectives relies on substantial
engineering judgment in order to organize the project into an efficient, executable development
process which creates the necessary evidence. In conjunction with the planning efforts,
establishing the initial certification position with regards to how the project will satisfy the
development assurance objectives also relies heavily on engineering judgment.
 4