Avionic System Development Plan ASDP300 5/28/2015 Title Doc No. Date
Α.3 ASDP300 5.3 Requirements Verification:
Verification of requirements and specific assumptions is the process of ensuring that the 
completed system has successfully implemented the requirements.
Verification is α structured process for ensuring implementation complies with the set of captured 
requirements.
Verification activities will be tracked using α matrix containing the requirements and their 
verification status.
Verification activities accomplished and the revised IMA100V2 verification matrix will be included in 
the new Avionics System Validation and Verification Summary Report.
Deviations from the verification process will be captured and reported in the Summary Report. 
Α.3 ASDP300 5.3.1 Requirements Verification Methods & Process:
Requirements will be verified using structured process accomplishing objectives of ARP4754Α. 
Requirements will be verified using combination of methods: 
Methods of verification include: 
Test, o
Analysis (Modeling), o
Service Experience or, o
Inspection (engineering review). o
It is anticipated that the bulk of the avionic systems requirements will be verified through test. 
Artifacts will be generated as demonstration of the verification process for all requirements. 
Verification artifacts will be managed appropriate for the function development assurance level. 
Changed or New requirements supporting functions with FDAL Α will be verified with 
independence.
Changed or New requirements supporting functions with FDAL Β & C will be verified with 
independence as α process goal but may be verified by requirement originators as necessary.
Changed or New verification test procedures supporting FDAL Α will be managed using change 
management system control category 1.
All unchanged functions and their requirements will be re-verified through execution of legacy 
verification methodologies so as to ensure unchanged and revised capabilities provide all intended
functionality.
The IMA100 Ξ.Y baseline verification matrix will be updated for completed verification activities 
and status.
This matrix tracks the verification status of each requirement and captures the verification 
method(σ) used to establish the verification result and artifact references capturing the verification
evidence.
An example verification Matrix shown in Table 33. 
 119