Objective Differences:
1. The DO254 LCP “Recommends” ensuring hardware requirements are complete and correct but is
inconsistent with the AC/Sys and software LCPS in not accomplishing the objective with independence
for assurance levels Α and Β. The AC/Sys LCP also has “As Negotiated” for validation of requirements
at assurance level Δ, while the DO LCPs maintain “Recommended”.
Analysis: It is unclear why the hardware requirements validation is not accomplished with independence
similarly to AC/Sys and software LCPs. As α consequence of this difference, it is conceivable that
hardware validation activities would be adapted to implement independence in order to have consistent
development processes across α project containing all of LCPs.
Similarly, if the HW and SW LCPs recommend validation of requirements for assurance level Δ, the
AC/SYS LCP would need to be negotiated to “Recommended” to maintain project consistency.
The AC/Sys and hardware LCP authors should establish consistency and revise the LCPs accordingly.
2. Validation of assumptions has no equivalent objective identified in the DO LCPs.
Analysis: This seems to be α set of “missing” (or at least not highlighted in the guidance material)
objectives from the DO life cycle processes regarding assumptions. Many assumptions are made at these
lower levels of development which may experience the same benefits experienced at the aircraft and
system levels had the validity been tracked and/or validated prior project completion.
The DO LCP authors should consider adding objective or highlighting validating assumptions made during
hardware and software development and revise the LCPs accordingly.
3. Derived requirement objectives vary across the LCP with different accomplishment criteria or by not
having any objectives. For assurance levels Α and Β, all of the LCPs “Recommend” accomplishing
validating captured requirements. The AC/Sys LCP recommends accomplishing this object with
independence whereas the DO LCPs do not. Additionally, the recommendation disappears for
validation of software requirements for assurance levels C and Δ.
Analysis: It is unclear why some categories of derived software requirements are not validated with
independence. It is also unclear as to why the software LCP varies the objectives within the domain
based on high and low level requirement definitions.
The software LCP authors should identify the rationale that validates high software requirements with
independence yet validates the traced children low level requirements without independence.
4. Validation records generation has no equivalent objective identified in the DO LCPs.
Analysis: This result is probably due to the comparison strategy used in this analysis. The hardware and
software DO LCPs contain the generation of validation data, as noted by the common satisfaction of
establishing requirement completeness and correctness. The DO LCPs do not call this out as α separate
or unique completion objective.
Data CM Category Differences:
There were no configuration management category differences identified for validation objectives between
the ARP and DO LCPs.
C 4.4 Verification Process Objectives Comparison
Figure 30 graphically summarizes the objectives and control categories for verification of requirements
between ARP4754Α and the DO LCPs. In general, the basic Verification objectives are consistent across
the processes for assurance levels Α through Δ; with only minor differences at assurance level Δ.
 198