03 Based on your current work environment, how does your management interpret the scope
and purpose of ARP4754A?
 R1 I think benefit of using this standard is not well understood by management. We need to
measure some metrics during application process.
 R2 As regulators, we generally view 4754A as state-of-the-art guidelines
 R3 Skip
 R4 Initially after the release of the DRAFT ARP4754A and the request, by our customers,
apply the ARP for new development programs, it created confusion, as interpretation of the
ARP content was varying inside the organization heavily. It was not clear how the existing
development processes have to be tuned in order to show compliance. The management
accepted the ARP as a burden in the beginning, which changed with the first projects
ARP4754A has been applied to the common consensus that the application of the ARP
adds maturity to all development phase. (brings our products closer to first time right).
 R5 Comply with Rev A for new design. Airframer got Issue Paper to follow rev A.
 R6 Concerned that any extra work to become 4754A compliant was not in the original budget
and is not easily
 R7 Necessary and acceptable mean to ensure development process of complex systems and
product quality. Reference and link to cost for extensive application of integral process not
defined and measurable yet despite development planning and transition criteria
guidelines.
 R8 Management knows the importance of application of ARPs since they are stated in the
contracts in military projects. Also the aim is to get TSO in the near future for our products
meeting civil certification requirements so they know ARPs are part of this process.
 R9 A kind of certification requirement and, to some extent, and under certain conditions, good
practices for product quality and maturity assurance. Recently, due to a certain inflation in
number of requirements being captured either due to situation described in q. 22 below or
because those recommended practices being carried for non-direct engineering
requirements at product high level specification (like maintenance, operational and
customer support requirements – see also q.5), there is also the perception that it
represents a burden activity.
 R10 It’s understood within management that the application of ARP4754A is needed in any
system development
 R11 The CAAC authority may take the ARP4754A as the certification requirement for the
system product, though there is no formal AC for it. My company management use
ARP4754A as guidance to improve the development process rather than only for
certification.
 133