Avionic System Development Plan ASDP300 5/28/2015 Title Doc No. Date
Α.3 ASDP300 5.2 Requirements Validation:
The validation of requirements and specific assumptions ensures that the specified requirements 
are sufficiently correct and complete so that the developed product will provide the intended
functionality.
Validation is α structured process for ensuring the correctness and completeness of the set o
of captured requirements.
The validation process also includes capture and evaluation of assumptions made during o
the requirement capture process to ensure:
 Assumptions have been explicitly stated, 
 Assumptions are appropriately disseminated, and 
 Assumptions are justified by supporting data. 
Validation activities will be tracked using α matrix containing the requirements and their validation 
status.
Validation activities accomplished and the completed validation matrix will be included in the 
Avionics System Validation and Verification Summary Report.
Deviations from the validation process will be captured and reported in the Summary Report. 
Α comparison of the ARP4754 legacy validation process and the objectives outlined for validation 
in ARP4754Α to identify any areas of the legacy validation process in need of revision.
The validation process will be revised as appropriate based on the results of this analysis (no 
revision is anticipated to be required).
Α.3 ASDP300 5.2.1 Requirements Validation Methods & Process:
Requirements will be validated using structured process accomplishing objectives of ARP4754Α. 
Requirements will be validated using combination of methods: 
Methods of validation include: 
Traceability, o
Analysis (Modeling), o
Test, o
Similarity or, o
Inspection (engineering review). o
The bulk of the avionic systems requirements will be validated through similarity to the certificated 
baseline, “Ξ.Y”.
Artifacts will be generated as demonstration of the validation process for all changed or new 
requirements.
Validation of requirement sets will be accomplished with independence commensurate with the 
assigned FDAL.
Requirements will be summarized in α validation matrix. 
This matrix tracks the validation status of each requirement or assumption and captures the 
validation methods used to establish the validation result and artifact references capturing the
evidence.
The requirements validation process is invoked as part of the change management process for 
changed or addition of new requirements.
An example validation Matrix shown in Table 32. 
 117