Β.1 2.2 Roundtable Discussion
Additional industry experience was solicited through α roundtable discussion held with twenty (20)
ARP4754Α experienced SAE Σ18 Committee members. Three different focus areas were discussed:
1) Lessons learned in applying ARP4754Α (ε.γ. DAL assignment, objective satisfaction),
2) Engineering judgment in ARP4754Α (where used, how leveraged, making up for α lack of
experienced engineering judgment),
3) Certification lessons learned on application of ARP4754Α (ε.γ. issues with guidance, issues with
ARP application, issues with certification policies).
Discussion Participants have been encoded in the notes as follows:
 AC – Aircraft manufacturer,
 SYS – System manufacturer,
 EQ – Equipment manufacturer,
 REG – Regulatory authority.
Section Β.3 contains the captured notes from the roundtable discussion.
Β.1 2.2.1 Discussion Area 1: Lessons Learned Summary
Three basic themes were identified in the lessons learned and DAL assignment area. The themes
include:
 Users are having difficulty in applying concepts of FDAL/IDAL assignment especially where non-
complex items are involved.
 Users are experiencing AC/System FDAL escalation due to assignment of IDAL using alternate
means.
 Users found new ARP contains improved wording that is different from original ARP and first
impressions of “extra” work were mitigated through better understanding of the objectives vs what
was already being accomplished.
Β.1 2.2.2 Discussion Area 2: Engineering Judgment
The primary themes identified during the engineering judgment discussions include:
 Validation activity needs domain knowledge and experience history in order to review
requirements. Two ways to obtain domain knowledge: buy it or experience it over time.
 Regulatory authority also needs experience in order to apply appropriate engineering judgments.
 Company cultures influence specific judgments made during the process (culture is safety
focused- the judgments will be safety focused, culture is cost focused – judgments will be
influenced to minimize expenditures).
 124