Discussion Area 2: Engineering Judgment
Facilitator: What are your experiences with regards to engineering judgment? What should developers do
if they have no experience? How do you accomplish if you have never done it before? How to fill in the
blanks?
EQ B: By reading ARP, there are 3 levels of decomposition. There is no reason that we cannot
take the principle of the ARP and increase the layer for higher complexity. We are not going to
commit and assume the small layer of decomposition is enough.
REG A: There is a need to have background of domain knowledge to ask the correct questions to
review the documents. The process depends on experience people who have the history of
lessons learned.
AC C: There needs to be better definition on the objects to support engineering judgment if there is
not enough history or lessons and learned. The assumptions are not based on technical activity,
but by the objectives and principle that you want to archive. This is challenge to write the policy
and guidance to help the engineers to understand the objectives to achieve.
AC D: There are extreme cases that the certification authority needs experience to do something
first. Maybe the training for certification authority is needed.
SYS B: While assuming something is the same and consistent, the assumption is also engineering
judgment.
AC D: How do people start? They build experience from something that does not need to be
certified first to build up their domain knowledge. After they get their experiences then they can
move to a Part 23 then Part 25 aircraft. All those experiences are engineering judgment, and there
is no way to skip all that unless hiring the talent people.
SYS C: If we look at the basic, there is not much differences when a good functional allocation is
needed. If you have a system development knowledge background then it will help support
facilitate engineering judgment. If we do not have the experience then we hire experience people,
which can do good functional allocation.
SYS B: There is a dependency of company culture differences. Some companies focus on safety,
but some of them want the minimum cost. The requirements are driven by the company behavior
on their culture differences. The company culture philosophy will drive the engineers to make some
decisions, which are engineering judgments.
AC A: We have never been good systems engineering organization. Since 1927, we have been
able to design build and certified aircraft in local office. Now we have a hiccup on AC20-174. In
ARP there are all kinds of engineering judgment for the reviews that we can take credit for.
Somehow locally for my experience is to that if you are not compliant of 8110-3 or 8100-9 and
unable to show the engineering judgment from experience people, it will be hard to take credit from
them.
REG A: Can I just clarify something? The AC is about development assurance process for
complex systems. The ARP is a means, but not the only means. We only use it to design and build
a better aircraft. Maybe we need to have a development assurance process for company start up.
The engineering judgment should focus on strict objectives to in accordance with the planning. If
you can go back and show what you should do, and what you need to add on due to any
unresolved problems. That would be great. We do not need everything to be blindly compliant to
ARP4754A.
 183