Avionic System Development Plan ASDP200 7/03/2015 Title Doc No. Date
Table 24 Reuse Strategy Nomenclature
Determining the Item Change Type
Program Strategy (Column 6) Description
Reusing an item (SW Application or HW element) from another aircraft program
Reuse
or previous certification without modification to the item itself.
Reusing an item from another airplane program or previous certification with
Reuse with Change (RWC)
modifications to the item.
Develop α new item; ι.ε. this is the first instance of this function
New
implementation.
Determining the System Change Type
Program Strategy (Column 6) Description
Select Reapply if the entire system is being reused from another/same airplane
program (ι.ε., all of the items in the system are identified as Reapply). The
Reapply activities are related to adding traceability from existing system requirements
to new airplane program/revised Function requirements and integration of the
system.
Select Adapt if one or more of the items is identified as Reuse with Change
Adapt
(RWC) with other items are identified as Reuse.
New Select New if all or nearly all items are New
Α.2 ASDP200 4 Avionic System Safety:
The system safety process includes requirements development as well as implementation 
verification activities that support the avionic system development.
This process provides α methodology to evaluate airplane function failure conditions and the 
avionic system design performing these functions to establish that the identified hazards have
been properly addressed.
The avionics systems development process will include the following safety activities: 
Avionic System Functional Hazard Analysis o
 Updated hazard evaluation for new function “ABC”, 
Preliminary Avionic System Safety Assessment Supplement o
 Supplement IMA100V1 PSSA will be created to evaluate planned implementation of 
function “ABC” against new system FHA failure condition(σ).
 Safety requirement development as necessary to support “ABC” implementation 
 FDAL / IDAL assignment (assignment substantiation) for FMS revisions & “ABC” 
development
Avionic System Safety Assessment (revision to existing analysis to incorporate applicable o
FMS changes and addition of “ABC” failure condition analysis result),
Avionic System Common Cause Analysis (update as necessary to support PSSA/SSA o
revisions),
Editor’σ Note: IMA100V1PSSA not created as part of the example development.
 88