Data CM Category Differences:
1. The CM control categories for assurance level Α and Β differ between the software LCPs and AC/SYS
and hardware LCP. All of the software planning objectives are managed using CM category 1 while
hardware and AC/Sys planning data is managed using CM category 2.
Analysis: It is unclear why the software life cycle manages the planning activities for assurance levels Α
and Β to the CM category 1 stringent criteria. The certification equivalent documents between the life
cycles are managed consistently at CM category 1 and it is these data artifacts that are specifically used
to plan the regulatory certification compliance criteria. CM category 1 increases the burden on industry
without justification or benefit since the certification planning data artifacts would need to be revised
commensurate with any subordinate plan revision.
The software LCP authors should consider relaxing the software configuration management control
category for development, verification, configuration management and quality assurance as the more
rigorous activities are unnecessary for certification or for the mitigation of development errors.
C 4.2 Development Process Objectives Comparison
Figure 28 graphically summarizes the objectives and control categories for development process between
ARP4754Α and the DO LCPs. In general, the basic Development Process objectives are consistent
across the processes for assurance levels Α through C; with only minor differences of CM control
categories. There are significant differences highlighted between the four LCPs at assurance level Δ for
both the objective recommendations and CM category assignments.
Objective Commonality:
The Development Process Objectives across the different life cycle domains are consistent, with each
LCP recommending objectives at assurance levels Α through C for:
 Identifying and capturing requirements,
 Identifying system architectures and,
 Performing integration.
The Development Process objectives for identifying requirements and architectures are consistent with
“Recommended” for development assurance levels Α and Β, with the data managed per CM category
1. There are objective differences identified at assurance levels C and Δ (see Objective Differences).
There are also CM data control category differences identified at development assurance levels Α and
Β for performing integration objectives (see CM Differences).
No Development Process Objectives are identified for development assurance level E across all four
LCPs.
Differences Summary:
Table 37 summarizes the noted differences between the ARP and DO processes.
 193