BASELINE ARCHITECTURE
The baseline architecture captures the activities associated with development of α new airplane
type to be certificated under 14CFR Part 25. The airplane itself is of conventional construction
and conventionally controlled (non-electronic flight controls). The avionics suite to be included
in the design is α re-application of an Integrated Modular Avionics (IMA) based avionic system
previously certificated on α different airplane manufacturer’σ type airplane.
The functions included in the IMA avionics include:
 1 Autopilot (autoflight) (ATA22) ,
 Communications (ATA23),
 Displays (ATA31),
 Navigation/Flight Management (ATA34),
 Maintenance (ATA45).
Note 1 - Air Transport Association function nomenclature has been used to enhance readability.
Artifact examples of the following airplane level ARP4754Α objectives are developed:
 Airplane Certification Plan,
 Avionics Certification Plan,
 Avionics Development Plan,
 Avionic System Preliminary Aircraft Safety Assessment (PASA).
Artifact examples of the following system level ARP4754Α objectives are developed:
 Avionic System Development Plan.
STUDY ARCHITECTURE 1
This architecture scenario captures the development of an update to an existing IMA avionic
system implementation on the same legacy airplane as originally certificated. Α revision to an
existing IMA avionic function as well as the introduction of α new function to the IMA is explored.
No airplane function changes are contemplated. The IMA system architecture, with the same
initial function set, as that postulated in the baseline architecture scenario is used.
In this scenario, revision artifacts are developed for updates to one of the existing implemented
functions (Flight Management (ATA34)) and for the addition of new functionality to the
maintenance function (ATA45). The new function addition affects multiple elements within the
implementation which are also explored.
Artifact examples of the following airplane level ARP4754Α objectives are developed:
 Project Specific Certification Plan (PSCP).
Artifact examples of the following system level ARP4754Α objectives are developed:
 Avionic System Development Plan.
 10