1 Executive Summary
The effort described herein supports NASA's Aviation Safety Program’s System-wide Safety
Assurance Technologies (SSAT) Project, which is conducting research directed at improving the
safety of current and future aircraft operating in the National Airspace System. Under SSAT a
technical challenge has been raised that targets the assurance of flight critical systems – a
technical challenge to address, among other things, the sound assurance of safety-critical
distributed systems properties and the complex interactions between systems and subsystems.
There is an ongoing trend in the aviation industry of increasing adoption of ever more
sophisticated computer-based technology to realize aircraft systems performing a wide variety
of functions with different safety criticality levels. State-of-the-art aircraft avionics are network-
centric systems of systems that are highly complex, software-intensive, and functionally
integrated. The use of legacy components and multiple vendors to supply different functions
that must share resources on a common distributed platform adds further complexity to these
systems. The intricate patterns of interaction resulting from large-scale functional integration
and distributed processing can expose a system to many non-intuitive failure mechanisms with
a potential for severe safety-relevant effects. The level of rigor in the development process is
determined by considerations of complexity and safety criticality. The predictability and
robustness of the integrated system in the face of uncertainty in interactions and health status of
components is of major importance in the “certifiability” of the system.
The SAE International (formerly the Society of Automotive Engineers [SAE]) Aerospace
Recommended Practice (ARP) 4754, Revision A (hereafter ARP4754A) describes a
recommended process-based development assurance framework for systems that implement
and support aircraft-level functions.
The purpose of ARP4754A is to provide guidelines for the generation of evidence to
substantiate with adequate confidence (i.e., assurance level) that errors in requirements,
design, and implementation of the system have been identified and corrected and that the
system satisfies the applicable certification regulations. ARP4754A states what objectives need
to be accomplished based on system development assurance level (DAL) assignments, but it
does not provide a justification for the guidelines and its application requires significant
engineering judgment.
 1