10 In what ways would/did the application of ARP4754Α impact program cost and schedule?
 R1 We couldn’τ apply all sections 100% in our military project. No metrics were measured.
Therefore no objective evidence about the impact on cost and schedule.
 R2 From the regulatory perspective, cost and schedule impacts should be neutral for the first
application (ι.ε. pays for itself due to mitigation of late surprises) and then improved for the
next project.
 R3 Additional effort in development, requirements capture process and verification. Application
in development process in some cases not clear - see also response to question 6.
 R4 In the beginning for the first time application of the ARP4754Α it was an increase of the
cost of about 25% and α schedule impact of about 3-4 month, clearly owed the fact that the
ARP4754Α process common understanding was not given with α set of repetitions
required. With the improved practice and mature and trained process, the impact is
reduced to 10% cost and 4 weeks schedule. But consider that the maturity of the final
system/product is heavily improved.
 R5 Higher cost, longer development plan
 R6 Α small potential for addition hours to support the higher levels of CM
 R7 1) Reviews might need to involve more resources, effort or loops before being deemed
completed. However, this is usually the case for FDAL Α/Β and safety related items.
2) Validation process is generally understood to need time, which is acceptable with
regards to the final target. Often times, this process is being complicated when
organizations/stakeholders to be involved are further apart (ε.γ. Customer/Supplier in
different countries). Release of documents might take longer, or rework is necessary if
validation is not directly performed with all stakeholders.
 R8 There is no sufficient data for this evaluation in our hand since our experience is relatively
low, newly developing. But I think the application of ARP should not adversely affect the
cost and schedule when applied correctly because the real cost comes from SW
development (appliance of DO 178) and AEH development (appliance of DO 254). On the
other hand, appliance of ARP should serve for cutting cost and schedule in the appliance of
these processes by timely identifying safety objectives, safety requirements and
development assurance levels which are used as the main inputs and in fact are the main
drivers for cost and schedule factors.
 R9 Increase schedule and cost in early phases of projects (due to greater effort concentrated
in requirements capture, discussion and validation, when compared to non-ARP4754
based processes) and across all phases due to formalization of several data, process
assurance activities and support for Cert. Authorities on-site reviews.
 R10 Don'τ know.
 R11 In my opinion, to apply ARP4754Α, we need qualified engineers to support the engineering
activities, so cost more for the human resource. As for the schedule, it may take more time
for design, but it may save time for the verification.
 142