NASA STI Program . . . in Profile
 Since its founding, NASA has been dedicated to the CONFERENCE PUBLICATION.
advancement of aeronautics and space science. The Collected papers from scientific and technical
NASA scientific and technical information (STI) conferences, symposia, seminars, or other
program plays a key part in helping NASA maintain meetings sponsored or
this important role. co-sponsored by NASA.

 The NASA STI program operates under the auspices SPECIAL PUBLICATION. Scientific,
of the Agency Chief Information Officer. It collects, technical, or historical information from NASA
organizes, provides for archiving, and disseminates programs, projects, and missions, often
NASA’s STI. The NASA STI program provides access concerned with subjects having substantial
to the NTRS Registered and its public interface, the public interest.
NASA Technical Reports Server, thus providing one
 of the largest collections of aeronautical and space TECHNICAL TRANSLATION.
science STI in the world. Results are published in both English-language translations of foreign
non-NASA channels and by NASA in the NASA STI scientific and technical material pertinent to
Report Series, which includes the following report NASA’s mission.
types:
 Specialized services also include organizing
 TECHNICAL PUBLICATION. Reports of and publishing research results, distributing
completed research or a major significant phase of specialized research announcements and feeds,
research that present the results of NASA providing information desk and personal search
Programs and include extensive data or theoretical support, and enabling data exchange services.
analysis. Includes compilations of significant
scientific and technical data and information For more information about the NASA STI program,
deemed to be of continuing reference value. see the following:
NASA counter-part of peer-reviewed formal
 professional papers but has less stringent Access the NASA STI program home page at
limitations on manuscript length and extent of http://www.sti.nasa.gov
graphic presentations.
 E-mail your question to help@sti.nasa.gov
 TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM.
 Scientific and technical findings that are Phone the NASA STI Information Desk at
preliminary or of specialized interest, 757-864-9658
e.g., quick release reports, working
 papers, and bibliographies that contain minimal Write to:
annotation. Does not contain extensive analysis. NASA STI Information Desk
 Mail Stop 148
 CONTRACTOR REPORT. Scientific and NASA Langley Research Center
technical findings by NASA-sponsored Hampton, VA 23681-2199
contractors and grantees.