AC A: There is no good way to maintain or archive lessons learned information. In some cases,
they (lessons learned) are only captured in an engineer’s note book. The experienced people who
have the knowledge are behind the story. For the process now the certification plan should control
the roles, responsibility, negotiation and planning. We do want to follow the objectives, but we also
need engineering judgment to set the priority of the objectives in order to improve the “selling” of
the process.
Item 3: Certification lesson learned on application of ARP4754A
Facilitator: ARP is a means of compliance. Map how you accomplish the objective in the ARP.
System B: The ARP is a mean of compliant to the regulations. Where is the compliance matrix for
the regulation? It is difficult to map the requirement and the matrix.
Facilitator: ARP 4754A Appendix A is a summary only. In order to approach the satisfaction of ARP, we
need to read the text for detail objectives. There maybe 30 objectives in the appendix, but 90 objectives in
the ARP content. Another approach is like, Do you understand the [ARP] objectives? Have you setup to
accomplish your plan? Understanding ARP and include in your plan is necessary. The DOs are easier to
audit since it tells you what to do.
Person ?: It is possible to fall into strictly compliant to ARP with no background on what the
purpose is. Good planning is needed to find problems if they need to be compliant with real values.
It is not a good practice to blindly to be compliant to all the artifacts.
REG A: Enough or not enough is an engineering judgment from regulatory stand point, which
needs artifacts to support process in order to comply only on necessary objective and avoid
negotiation during the audit.
AC A: ACO specialist scope is different than each other and also cause differences on different
programs. It is hard to determine when or when not to exercise the particular aspect.
EQ B: Develop partnership is needed to handle disagreements. The agreement between you and
the ACO management can resolve different cases under different levels, which can be refer to
PSP.
SYS B: Fundamentally, the higher level authority does not have good understanding on the lower
level sub-system. It is common that the system get overworked while certifying the sub-system by
reading the guidance with checking boxes.
Facilitator: There is a lack of consistency for interpreter side for certifying. It may be recommended
instead of revising the ACs we can create some standards or guidance for people doing evaluation. Kind
of like a lessons learned for regulatory standpoint.
Person ?: There is a battle on training our own people or training the regulatory authority. There
needs to be a trust of each other in order to have a smooth certification.
REG B: Pre-audit can resolve problems. The pre-audit can have the supplier understand the
objectives and where they come from. Try to meet the intent of assigning DALs. For example, to
perform more robustness testing to meet the intent of unintended function. In this case, the audit
will go smoother.
AC A: There are problems on the AC 8110.15. Need experience on brand new process. This issue
has grown locally, but there were no people to support it. There is culture shift for individual
authority, which does not support locally while the ARP get interpreted locally. The lack of process
understanding needs to be addressed in FAA manual.
 184