Δ 3 ARP4754Α Option 1/2 Equivalence
ARP4754Α establishes that, should independence in the functional failure set be established, the
functional or item development assurance level assignment may be accomplished using either of two
options, 1 or 2. How do the two options compare?
Fault tree representations of functional failure sets (FFS) supporting catastrophic, hazardous and major
failure conditions, respectively, were created to evaluate the options. Each representative graphic
summarizes the assurance objectives for α functional failure set, having α single member (ι.ε. no
independence development attributes satisfied) as the leftmost branch and then the option 1 or option 2
assurance assignment options with their objective attributes, left to right respectively. Note that for Option
1 or 2, the minimum allowable assignment pair from ARP4754Α Table 3 is considered.
Δ 3.1 Catastrophic Failure Condition FFS
Figure 34 presents the FFS fault tree for α catastrophic failure condition. Α review of Figure 34 shows that
satisfying the ARP4754Α Level Α objectives establishes sufficient rigor of process results to support the
catastrophic Failure Condition.
Option 1: Option 1 provides for assurance assignments of Level Α in combination with Level Β or C to
support the catastrophic Failure Condition. Since α Level Α process alone is sufficient to satisfy
the development process objectives, the addition of an independent error migration path at
either level Β or C provides additional error mitigation properties. It is noted that even though
the additional independent element may be accomplished as low as level C, the only significant
deviation in objectives from level Α is the requirements management activities are not
accomplished with in-line independence. This is certainly acceptable since any error is
mitigated by the Level Α development path.
Option 2: Option 2 provides for two independent level Β assurance assignments to support the
catastrophic FC. When the objectives of Level Β are compared to those of Level Α, the only
difference is the lack of in-line requirement verification in each independent Level Β process. In
this case, the independence is achieved by having two independent level Β processes
accomplishing independent and different requirement verifications.
It is important to remember that Function F1 and F2 must have functional or Item development
independence attributes satisfied in order to consider Option 1 or 2. The establishment of these
attributes by α safety analysis assures minimization of common mode errors in the development
process.
From α practical standpoint, these independence attributes mean that Function F1 and F2 have
an acceptable level of differences in their requirement sets and development processes such
that the independence attribute is true. Α comparison of the single member FFS with Option 2
at this lower level may look like Figure 35. For the Single Member FFS on the left, we see that
we have independent in-line requirements validation and independent in-line requirement
verification to satisfy the objectives of the ARP and mitigate errors. In the Option 2 case (on the
right of Figure 35) we have two independent requirement sets and development processes.
Each process still has an independent in-line validation activity with non-independent (but
different between F1 and F2) verification activity.
The independent in-line validation of two different requirement sets as well as the verification of
two different requirement sets, using the equivalent configuration management and process
assurance rigor, assures that the equivalent level of common mode error mitigation as the
single member FFS case is achieved.
 210