3. Specific safety requirement verification is “Recommended with Independence” at the AC/Sys LCP
assurance levels Α and Β only software LCP assurance level Α having α similar objective.
Analysis: It is unclear why the hardware LCP does not have α specific objective to ensure safety
requirement verification. It is also unclear why the software LCP does not maintain the verification with
independence to assurance level Β.
Since safety is predominately an aircraft and/or system activity, it is conceivable that the authors of the
hardware and software LCPs had α more narrow definition of “safety requirements” than that of the ARP
authors. The discrepancy may also be attributed to the comparison strategy used in this analysis. The
hardware LCP contains the generation of verification data but does not call the objective out as α separate
or unique completion objective.
Further detailed comparison analysis should be completed so that LCP authors can establish consistency
in objective completion.
4. The AC/Sys life cycle has two objectives identified where there is no comparative hardware or
software LCP objective
Analysis: Α more detailed comparison analysis would undoubtedly find that these two objectives are
inherent in the activities of the HW and SW LCPs though they are not highlighted in the summary matrices
in each process.
Further detailed comparison analysis should be completed so that LCP authors can establish consistency
in objective completion.
Data CM Category Differences:
1. Safety requirement verification is maintained using CM category 1 in the AC/Sys LCP for assurance
levels Α thru C which differs from the software LCP at CM category 2 at those levels (the HW LCP has
no safety verification objectives).
Analysis: Since safety is predominately an aircraft and/or system activity, it is conceivable that the
authors of the hardware and software LCPs envisioned that CM of true “safety” data would be
accomplished in the AC/Sys life cycle. The “safety data” created by the subordinate HW and SW life
cycles would be effectively managed for certification purposes at the higher levels.
Further detailed comparison analysis should be considered so that LCP authors can establish consistency
across the LCPs in objective completion.
C 4.5 Configuration Management Process Objectives Comparison
Figure 31 graphically summarizes the objectives and control categories for configuration management
processes between ARP4754Α and the DO LCPs. The basic configuration management objectives are
consistent across the processes for assurance levels Α through Δ; with only minor differences with the
software LCP due to non-equivalent objectives.
Objective Commonality:
All of the development process documents have consistent “Recommended” CM objectives for:
 Defining configuration items,
 Establishing baselines and derivatives,
 Establishing change control,
 Establishing archive and control capabilities.
 201