Differences Summary:
Table 41 summarizes the noted differences between the ARP and DO processes.
Table 41 Process Assurance Differences
CM Assurance
Objective Accomplish Category Level Comment
Plans developed & maintained Ξ Α-Δ DO178/DO254
Data complies with plans Ξ Α-C DO178/DO254
Implementation conforms to data Ξ Α-Δ DO178/DO254
Objective Differences:
1. The AC/Sys LCP directly identifies creating and maintaining the development plan data while the DO
LCPs do have an equivalent objective.
Analysis: In this case, it is obvious that the DO LCPs contain this objective since the remainder of the
process assurance activities are based on evaluating compliance to these plans. So even though there
appears to be α gap in objectives, it is predominately α depth of comparison analysis study issue.
It would be advantageous though for the software and hardware LCP authors to explore adding an
equivalent objective to enhance process consistency.
2. There are differences in evaluating the process activities for assurance level Δ. The software LCP
maintains α “Recommended with Independence” for assurance levels Α thru Δ while the AC/Sys LCP
identifies only “Recommended” and DO254 has no equivalent objective.
Analysis: It is unclear why the SW LCP recommends the additional burden of activity monitoring with
independence for functions which have such α limited impact on product safety.
The software and hardware LCP authors should explore the rationale for the present recommendations or
lack thereof at assurance level Δ when the AC/System LCP indicates there isn’τ α safety need.
3. The hardware and software LCPs contain objectives evaluating the implementation against program
standards and specific project documentation. There is not an equivalent AC/Sys LCP objective.
Analysis: This is an acceptable difference. The DO LCPs define the items that are used to implement
systems and aircraft. It is reasonable therefore to have α process objective to establish that the actual
implementation matches its documentation, since that documentation will be used at each successive
level to establish compliance.
Data CM Category Differences:
There were no configuration management category differences identified for the process assurance
objectives between the ARP and DO LCPs.
 204