07 Please describe any benefits you discovered in applying ARP4754Α.
 R1 It provides companies α structure way to develop their processes. Giving α systematic path
to follow in design and development.
 R2 From the regulatory perspective, the benefits are better understanding of applicants’
development process which in turn helps us provide better guidance to applicants toward
showing compliance
 R3 Clear relationship between safety, requirements capture process and (system) design
 R4 Guideline for development process development and predecessor to RTCA DO 178 and
254
 R5 More rigorous requirements traceability
 R6 NA
 R7 1) Possibility and opportunity to apply α single development process for complete System
2) Compatibility with other standards or guidelines already established in the Company,
such as DO254ξ,DO178ξ, ARP47613) Compatibility with Company Business Process,
though adjustment might be necessary 4) Wider acceptance among development and
verification engineering.
 R8 ARP is α key tool when applied logically and in an organized manner because it is α
detailed guideline which provides α bridge between the civil certification requirements and
SW development (DO 178)/AEH development (DO-254). Since all our existing programs
requires SW developed according to DO 178 and in recent programs DO 254 is also
required, the appliance of system level development processes according to ARP is very
crucial. ARP gives α detailed guideline starting from deriving system functions to
implementation. While doing this, the focus is system level development (for our usage)
and system safety assessment but the relations with other levels like aircraft level, item
level, SW level, HW level are very well established. The flow of information between these
layers and the borders of each layer has been drawn to clarify top-down approach that has
been adapted. Hence it is good to know when adapting company processes to ARP, which
pieces of information is related with systems engineering or SW engineering or HW
engineering and what should we expect from aircraft level.
 R9 The ones that highlight are: # is to set up α framework to perform α requirements-oriented
development, which provides means to correlates program/development phases/events
with key processes activities that allow us to set up and to measure product quality and
maturity expectations.
 R10 Structured and controlled V&V activities throughout the development process
 R11 The work is well ordered and well controlled. Though we have taken more time for the
design, less iterations are required for the verification process, etc.
 137