schematic, Simulink, engineering review and test cases and call them validation as done with
independence. The credit has never received in the past with those Validation while they are
already DAL A and B, but now we can get the credit with the improved guideline.
It is not difficult to assign DAL assignments, but the assignment might result in additional work. The
ARP4754A has a clear comparison to show the differences with ARP4754; however, people are
assuming they are the same, while it is not true. The subject of objective allocation needs to be
further broken down. It is incorrect while people assigning 18 level A with only one level D. There
needs to be an explanation for each process to evaluate the work; otherwise, there is too much
work to be done. The Validation will take credit on ARP4754A, but we do want to avoid extra work
that is not going to take credit.
SYS B: One of the challenges I have is to understand what is an IDAL. An IDAL applies to the
whole life. It divides the concepts to where you are applying to. I have a single item that has mixed
many IDALs. There become a discussion on the level A has a level D coding SW behind it
internally. It shows it is being activated appropriately, so I have an FDAL.
SYS C: It is the problem that we have a DAL A partition and a DAL D in there. You cannot do it by
looking at the table. The case is like, you have a simple switch in the hardware; therefore, by
ARP4754A, it is DAL A. I used DAL A switch to detect DAL B. We cannot do that either per table,
but common sense it is OK. Those are common sense that we can fix in ARP 4754A.
SYS B: The other one that I dislike with is that by definition DAL C is not catastrophic. We
programming in the wrong time. I do not know if I need to do anything or not, but it has to be DAL
C according to the system because the wording in the ARP. However, I cannot proof confidentially
and I cannot stop either because catastrophic by definition.
There needs to be a good understanding of IDAL. IDAL is for the whole item, so the single item
may have mixed items. Per ARP4754A table, it is incorrect to have a level A partition with a level D
allocation, but sometimes it seems to be fine in common sense. An example for a level A assign to
mechanical devise is like a simple DAL A switch to detect DAL B.
AC A: By definition, DAL C is not catastrophic; however, the combination of DAL in mechanical
and electrical objectives in each level may result of level increasing.
SYS B: It is an issue that if there was no agreement up front. Every hazardous failure condition has
something not making sense or misleading, which cause argument and rework.
AC A: When you look at the aircraft level if I go to PASA to talk about DAL assignment. Not a big
deal since they use DO178, 254. When I go to ECS for flight control systems that has never done
this before, they do not know what to do, and I will have to explain them the concept and let them
know that they have done it before, and now you can get credit for it. It is depend on who your
audience is.
SYS B: It is documenting what you actually did to satisfy the objectives. We did many things and
we cannot know what we did, so we document it to now to know the steps.
AC A: It is important to know who you are talking to and understand from their stand point. If I talk
to an ACO regulator it will be smooth, but if I talk to a purely mechanical flight control system or ice
protection system specialist, and they will be asking: Why are you giving this material to me? We
need to have the local regulator training to resolve cross ways.
It is depend on who your audience is. While interfacing organization that is using DO178B and DO
254, they are audit friendly. The documents are actually mentioning what you actually did. You
 181