21 Please describe how the airplane manufacturer was involved in the requirement
management processes at the system and lower tier equipment supplier levels, as applicable.
 R1 Skip
 R2 As an observation, airplane manufacturers currently have limited practical influence at
lower tiers supplier levels, although most have processes to manage system-level
requirements.
 R3 Skip
 R4 The airplane manufacturer was involved in the system requirements by discussion and
agreement to the compliance matrix to the customer specification as well as the
participation in the system validation audits.
 R5 Airframer review engine safety requirement, offer workshop
 R6 The normal interaction with the airframer is through the publication of the ICD. This
process is the same under both versions of the ARP so there is no difference seen in this
area.
 R7 1) System Requirements Document is α child of the airplane manufacturer’σ requirements
documents. Traceability to the document
2) Validation activities with airplane manufacturer to ensure completeness and coverage
are part of standard process.
3) System Validation/Verification Summary Reports including matrices containing agreed
information are part of deliverables.
4) Airplane manufacturer representatives witness verification activities on request.
 R8 In some projects airplane manufacturer or main contractor gives us not only FDALs but
also IDALs for system items that we are developing without validation evidence. This
complicates the safety assessment process, requirement development and management.
 R9 In our experience as airplane manufacturer, suppliers are involved in two moments, with
two approaches. In the first moment, in the preliminary studies of α new project, before its
formally launched, through interviews and procurement preliminary discussions (requests
for information / proposal). Next, we set up α supplier oversight plan, based on α risk
assessment and level of involvement processes. Those processes end up with activities
similar to the ones defined for “Stage Of Involvement” reviews performed for software when
finding compliance to DO-178() (“SOIs”), which the highest rigor is to have on-site
development and verification reviews after the planning review performed for all cases. In
general, we’ve observed the suppliers of are not familiar with fulfilling ARP4754()
objectives, usually because either their primary regulatory compliance does not require
include ARP4754Α as α means of compliance or that compliance is requested to be
demonstrate by the airplane manufacturer only.
 R10 Aircraft level requirements and supplier requirements are traces and controlled by the
airplane manufacturer.
 R11 Skip
 152