19 Please describe any ARP4754Α planning difficulties encountered.
 R1 Safety assessments should be started very early stage of the project. Because system
criticality effects some planning activities. Without knowing system criticality we couldn’τ
plan some activities in detail.
 R2 Skip
 R3 Skip
 R4 None, after the generic validation and verification plans have been established in the
development process
 R5 When to introduce Config Management
 R6 NA
 R7 1) “Old school” verification, just like design, certainly still relies on experience and sees
requirements engineering as subordinated.
2) Beyond configuration management own issues, keep track of all currently valid items’
baselines in α way to coordinate complex actions and interactions is nearly impossible.
E.γ.: By the time of its delivery, the qualification procedures for the release of equipment
might not be complete in its entireness. Written Evidence or Design Justification supporting
applicability and minor/none effect of remaining portion to be qualified must be produced.
 R8 It is difficult to plan the completion of requirement validation work.
 R9 The most relevant difficulties were related to:
α) timely definition and application of clear transition criteria and guidelines related to
deviations from the plans (section 3.2);
β) to set up process related to architecture / design definition and requirements allocation
(sections 4.1.6/7, 4.4 and 5.8.4.4). Additionally, about this last, in despite of figure 6
suggests the existence of sub-systems, related sections suggest that systems are, at the
same time, the entity to which aircraft level functions are allocated and from which software
and hardware items are deployed (section 4.6). This situation does not match with real
environment and introduce difficulties in planning requirements organization and integral
processes.
 R10 None
 R11 The plans for all the projects seem similar, but it does not have too much help to the
project. We do not know how to write α good plan to guide the specific project working
effectively.
 150