6 Results and Recommendations
The industry questionnaire responses indicate that ARP4754Α is viewed favorably by the
engineering groups for development. The ARP establishes α structured process with known
communications which was viewed positively. Company managements tended to view the ARP
as only adding costs since they were not focused on reducing future project costs.
Industry was unanimous in wanting consistency in interpretation of the ARP across the
certification authority environment.
ARP4754Α and the Item development process standards (RTCA DO documents) form α
consistent strategy to mitigate error sources in support of regulation compliance. The individual
processes act in concert to provide α comprehensive safety development solution.
Recommendations
Certification authorities should study and implement an effective way of evaluating, within the
certification framework, satisfaction of ARP4754Α objectives. The goal of this activity should be
to mitigate the existing large disparity in ARP interpretations during project application.
Industry should initiate an effort to synergize the objectives and configuration control criteria
across the industry process documents. ARP4754Α, DO-178, DO-254 and DO-297 differences
lead applicants to apply the most severe common denominator across α project and thus are
not optimizing the development objectives to support α common safety perspective.
More examples and “how to” information are also recommended to accelerate the learning
curve of new ARP4754Α applicants. It is worth noting that the current ongoing revision to
ARP4761 will address some of industry identified issues. The details of how to assign
FDAL/IDAL as well as identifying independence attributes and principles are being addressed.
The study scenarios herein also aid in addressing some industry comments in the application of
ARP in during reuse scenarios (ARP4754Α section 6). The equivalence of ARP4754Α Table 3
options discussed herein may also help in the understanding of the FDAL/IDAL assignment
process.
 8